ID: 2e51caef444ed080
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Chengdu and Chongqing 2026
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-chengdu-and-chongqing.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Chengdu is the hometown of giant pandas, enjoying the reputation of being "the land of heaven". Chongqing is a cyberpunk 8D magic mountain city. This article will help you plan a wonderful trip by offering travel information on each city's attractions, transportation, accommodation, and costs. • Must-Sees in Chengdu and Chongqing • How Long to Spend in Chongqing and Chengdu • Transportation Tips • Accommodation Tips • Best Times to Visit Chengdu and Chongqing Must-Sees in Chengdu and Chongqing In the section, you could obtain some ideas about things to do in Chengdu and Chongqing based on our recommendations. Below are the top things you should not miss in Chengdu. As the home of giant pandas, Chengdu is a must-see destination for panda lovers around the world. You could get the best panda-watching experience in the world there. If you want to see newborn panda babies, Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding is recommended, especially from June to August. If you want to know more about wild pandas' habitats, Dujiangyan and Bifengxia panda bases are recommended. Many returned pandas, such as Le Le and Fu Bao, are also there. You could also be a panda volunteer for a day. If you like hiking, Wolong Panda Center is the best choice. See if you are lucky enough to find traces of wild pandas under the guidance of a tour guide. See our 1-Day Panda Volunteer Program Tour. learn to cook classic Sichuan cuisine Chengdu – the first UNESCO-recognized food city – is known for its aesthetically pleasing and spicy cuisine. Chengdu specialty foods are hot pots, Sichuan cuisine, Dandan noodles, red oil wonton, etc. You could savor food in Kuan Zhai Alley, Jinli Old Street, Yulin Road, Jianshe Road, etc. If you like walking and taking photos, Jinli is recommended. It is romantic and cozy with lots of red lanterns dotting the street with many food choices. If you want to taste the most authentic food, you could go to Jiaogui Alley and Fuqin Night Market, frequented by locals. If you have a special interest in Sichuan cuisine, we could arrange a Sichuan cuisine-making experience for you. You would go to a local food market to purchase food in order to gain an in-depth understanding of Chengdu's food culture. Then, you would go to a local chef's home to learn how to cook typical Sichuan dishes. See our 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Food Tour. Experience Chengdu's Leisurely Lifestyle Chengdu has been awarded the title of "China's Happiest City" for 15 consecutive years. "Leisure" is its label. People's Park is the best place to learn about the laid-back lifestyle of the locals. People practice tai chi, mahjong, square dancing, and ear-pulling — you could discover the most authentic Chengdu lifestyle there. Drinking tea and chatting with friends at a teahouse has been a Chengdu tradition for millennia. You could also order a cup of tea and relax, blending in with the daily lifestyle of the locals. Your tour guide will introduce the tea etiquette and the meaning of each program. If you are interested in it, see our 1-Day Chengdu Lifestyle Tour. Learn About the Mysterious Sanxingdui Culture Sanxingdui bronzeware is unique in the world. You could find some Chinese national treasures that are not exhibited in other countries, such as the bronze sacred tree. So far, no written text has been found in the Sanxingdui ruins and the Sanxingdui civilization still retains a mysterious veil. Would you like to go and see the artifacts for yourself and form your own unique interpretation? See our 1-Day Chengdu Tour for Pandas and Sanxingdui Museum. Attractions Around Chengdu Chengdu's surroundings offer a wealth of opportunities for exploring both natural beauty and rich culture. If you want to explore the most stunning and perfect natural scenery, you might consider traveling to Daocheng, Jiuzhaigou, or Mount Siguniang. If you like beautiful scenery and Buddhist culture, go to the Leshan Giant Buddha to see the stone-carved Buddha statue as tall as the mountain, or go to Mount Emei to have the ultimate spiritual experience. • 4-Day Essential Chengdu and In-Depth Jiuzhaigou Tour • 5-Day Chengdu, Daocheng, and Yading Tour Chongqing's mountainous area is more than 70%, and the buildings built on the mountains are the origin of its 8D magical city. Below are the top things you should do in Chongqing. Capture the Charming Lit Hongya Cave Nighttime is the soulful time of Hongya Cave, presenting a unique geometric beauty and cyberpunk style. You could see the magical three-dimensional style of Chongqing. The best photo spots are across the road on the first floor of Hongya Cave — Qiansimen Bridge, Jiangtan Park, and Daijiaxiang Cliff Path. Hongya Cave turns on the lights between 6pm and 11pm, and we recommend that you go after it's completely dark to take the best photos. If you want to take a picture of yourself with the cave in the background, you'd better take a flash and wear light-colored clothes. Check-In at the Internet-Famous Liziba The strong visual impact of the light rail going through a building and the image of the unaffected harmonious coexistence of the residents downstairs allow you to experience the unique charm of the mountain city. You could get up close and personal with the novel experience of the light rail passing by on the viewing platform. If you want to capture a shot of the first view, take a photo of the train going to the terminus and choose either the front or rear of the train. Experience the Yangtze River The Yangtze River Cableway is a unique mode of transportation in Chongqing, giving you a three-dimensional view of the mountain city from an aerial perspective and a sensation of excitement. The cableway has a south station and a north station. We recommend going to the south station as there are fewer people and shorter queues. Attractions Around Chongqing Chongqing's surrounding areas allow you to see more magnificent mountains and rivers and enrich your cultural experience. For nature lovers, Wulong is recommended. There, you could enjoy rare karst landscapes, including sinkholes and the world's largest natural bridge complex. Alternatively, you could take a Yangtze River cruise, enabling you to travel on the third longest river in the world and see strange peaks and beautiful colors on both sides of the Three Gorges. For culture lovers, you could visit the Dazu Rock Carvings to enjoy the highest level of cave art in the world from the 9th to the 13th centuries AD. You could get more ideas in our Top Things to Do in Chongqing. • 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour • 7-Day Chongqing and Chengdu Tour with Wulong and Dazu How Long to Spend in Chongqing and Chengdu A trip to Chongqing and Chengdu usually takes 5–10 days with different arrangements. Spend 4–6 days in Chengdu and Chongqing, with 2–3 days in each city respectively. If you have extra time, consider adding 2 to 5 days to visit their surroundings. How Many Days Are Needed in Chengdu? Generally, your trip to Chengdu would take 2–7 days. Two to 3 days are needed for the city highlights. If you want to explore Chengdu's surroundings, you would add 1 to 4 days, such as Jiuzhaigou for 1 day, Daocheng for 4 days, and Leshan for 2 days. How Many Days Are Needed in Chongqing? A trip to Chongqing would range from 2–5 days. Two to 3 days are needed for the city highlights. If you want to explore Chongqing's surroundings, you would add 1 to 5 days, such as Wulong for 2 days, the Dazu Rock Carvings for 1 day, and a Yangtze River cruise for 4–5 days. Suggested Chengdu and Chongqing Itinerary If it's your first time traveling to these two cities, we suggest you spend 7 days there. Here is a suggested itinerary: • Day 1: Chongqing arrival • Day 2: Explore Chongqing's city highlights • Day 3: Transfer to Wulong • Day 4: Visit Furong Cave and transfer to Chongqing • Day 5: Visit the Dazu Rock Carvings and transfer to Chengdu • Day 6: Explore Chengdu's city highlights • Day 7: Chengdu departure The itinerary offers a rich experience with a comfortable travel pace. You would not only witness the most classic landmarks and enjoy delicious food in both Chengdu and Chongqing but also have the opportunity to explore their surrounding areas, especially Wulong. In Wulong, you could marvel at the karst landscape featuring the world's largest natural stone arch group and sinkholes, take stunning photos in Fairy Mountain National Forest Park – known as the "Little Switzerland of the East" – with its vast grasslands, and explore world-class karst caves in Furong Cave. All of our tours can be adjusted/customized based on your interests and requirements. Just contact us. Here are some questions you may be concerned about regarding transportation in Chengdu and Chongqing. If you are traveling from Southeast Asian countries, such as Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand, it is OK to go to Chengdu or Chongqing first, as both have direct flights. If you are traveling from the Americas and Europe, it is advisable to go to Chengdu first, which has two airports and more international flights. Insider tip: If you want to take a Yangtze River cruise, it is recommended to visit Chengdu first and then go to Chongqing, where you could board the ship and start your cruise. If you want to take a Yangtze River cruise, it is recommended to visit Chengdu first and then go to Chongqing, where you could board the ship and start your cruise. How to Travel Between Chengdu and Chongqing Since Chengdu and Chongqing are very close and there are no flights between them, the best and most convenient way to travel between them is via a high-speed train, which only takes 2 hours. How to Travel Around Chengdu If you want to visit city highlights, buses and subways could meet your transportation needs. The subway would be faster and more convenient. If you want to explore surrounding areas, taking flights or trains are the most common ways. For some close neighboring destinations, such as Jiuzhaigou, Leshan, and Dujiangyan, you could take a bullet train. For distant destinations, such as Daocheng, taking a flight is best. If you want to save time and energy, you could consider our private transfer, allowing you to avoid the crowds and rest in the car, especially if you are traveling with a large family with seniors and children. Our car provides an attentive service. How to Travel Around Chongqing If you want to visit city highlights, buses and subways are accessible to most attractions. The subway would be faster and more convenient. If you want to travel around, such as to Wulong and the Dazu Rock Carvings, you could take a train. Because Chongqing is a mountainous city with many steps and hills, you may not find the way even if you navigate using a map. A local driver and guide who are familiar with the road conditions would help, reducing the time spent on the road. This section offers you accommodation options in different areas of Chengdu and Chongqing. Where to Stay in Chengdu • Chunxi Road / Taikoo Li area: This is in the bustling city center with a collection of most of Chengdu's high-luxury hotels. You could shop and see the wall-climbing pandas in International Finance Square (IFS). As it's close to the Jiuyanqiao area, it's suitable for those who like to be lively, want to shop, or want to experience the nightlife. • Kuan Zhai Alley area: Mansion-style boutique hotels are mainly located in the area. It is suitable for those who want to experience old Chengdu culture. • Wenshu Yuan area: There are fewer hotels in this area. It is relatively quiet, being suitable for those who like to be quiet or groups with seniors and children traveling together. Where to Stay in Chongqing • Jiefang Monument / Guanyin Bridge area: This area is in the city center. It is very lively at night, the attractions are concentrated, and transportation is convenient. The largest number of hotels are located there. It is suitable for those who like to have fun and enjoy nightlife. • Nanbin Road area: This is a riverside area with a quieter vibe but few shopping places around it. Opposite Hongya Cave, it is also a good area to enjoy night views. If you prefer a river-view room or like peaceful environments, you could choose this area. Best Times to Visit Chengdu and Chongqing Being adjacent, Chengdu and Chongqing enjoy similar weather. Spring and fall are the best times because of the comfortable weather and fewer tourists. Spring: Offers Nice Weather Spring offers nice weather for sightseeing in both Chengdu and Chongqing. It is also the shoulder season (except for the Labor Day holidays from May 1st to 5th). Therefore, you could have a better and freer experience. Whether you want to taste food, explore culture, or enjoy outdoor activities, spring is very suitable. July and August would be the peak months, and the prices of hotels and air tickets would rise. The earlier you book, the better the prices you may get. We recommend you visit in June as the weather is not as hot and there are fewer people so you could be more comfortable during the trip. Because summer is the peak season, there would be a lot of tourists. If you plan to visit in this period, to ensure a better experience, we suggest booking a private tour. With a private tour, you would have a flexible itinerary allowing adjustments based on your preferences and the specific crowd levels at attractions. Additionally, air-conditioned private transfers would provide a more comfortable and convenient travel experience. Chengdu and Chongqing would be hot in July and August. To avoid the heat, their surrounding areas, such as Wulong, Mount Emei, and Mount Siguniang, are recommended. Autumn: Cool Weather and the Best Views In autumn, Chengdu and Chongqing have cool and pleasant weather with fresh air, which is suitable for outdoor activities. The natural landscape of the two cities is at its best at this time. It is the best viewing period for red leaves, colored leaves, and ginkgoes, where you could see a splash of colorful paintings in Daocheng, Jiuzhaigou, and the Three Gorges. Tips: If your time is flexible, you'd better avoid the National Day holidays from October 1st to 7th. During this time, you would experience large crowds and this may lead to a less comfortable travel experience. Tips: If your time is flexible, you'd better avoid the National Day holidays from October 1st to 7th. During this time, you would experience large crowds and this may lead to a less comfortable travel experience. Winter: Cost-Effective Average winter temperatures in Chengdu and Chongqing are generally about 6–8°C (43–46°F). In winter, there are relatively fewer tourists visiting Chengdu and Chongqing, and the attractions are not crowded, so you would find the air tickets and hotels would have good discounts. If you want to enjoy snow and skiing, consider Xiling Snow Mountain and Bipenggou in Chengdu as well as Fairy Mountain in Chongqing. The level of tourist costs in Chengdu and Chongqing are similar. Generally, the cost of a private tour for a group of 2–5 people is US$200–230 per person per day, and this price includes transportation within China, 4-star or 5-star hotels, attraction tickets, private transportation, and tour guides. The above is just a reference price and we will give you a more specific price according to the specific itinerary, travel time, number of travelers, hotel selection, etc. Just contact us. Popular Chengdu and Chongqing Tours • 14-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, Xiamen' and Shanghai Tour • 20-Day Chengdu, Chongqing, Lhasa, Silk Road, and Shanghai Tour Our private customized travel services, with professional travel consultants and a full one-on-one service, dig deep into your preferences and expectations. We provide accurate planning of each day's itinerary in accordance with your preferred travel pace. Just contact us.