ID: ce04f7c6d30d2af
Title: How to Plan a Yunnan and Zhangjiajie Tour in 2026 (5 Steps)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-yunnan-and-zhangjiajie.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Yunnan province is known as a colorful ethnic region. Kunming, the 'Spring City', is the capital of Yunnan. Unlike the large mountain chains of Yunnan, Zhangjiajie boasts steeping sandstone cliffs and pillars and peculiar rock formations. With lush forests and cliff-hugging clouds, it's no wonder Zhangjiajie that inspired the alien-planet scenery in Avatar. For an adventure full of cultural diversity and natural wonders, a journey that includes Yunnan and Zhangjiajie could be the dream trip you are looking for. • 1. How Many Days to Spend in Yunnan and Zhangjiajie • 2. Itinerary Suggestions for Yunnan and Zhangjiajie • 3. How to Travel between Yunnan and Zhangjiajie • 4. The Best Times to Visit Yunnan and Zhangjiajie • 5. How Much Does It Cost for a Visit to Yunnan and Zhangjiajie? 1. How Many Days to Spend in Yunnan and Zhangjiajie Since Yunnan is a large province and the main attractions in Yunnan are concentrated around four cities (Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La), for first-timers we recommend spending 6–10 days there to get a complete experience. • Having 6 days in Yunnan allows you to visit Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang for 2 days each, taking in the main sights, including the Stone Forest, Dali Old Town, and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. • With 2 days more, you could extend your trip to Shangri-La to experience the Tibetan spirit in local ethnic villages and Meili Snow Mountains. • If you have more days to spend there, you could embark on a trip to the Yuanyang Rice Terraces to see 'God's color palette', venture to Xishuangbanna (Banna) to trek in the tropical forest, or you could choose a more leisurely pace to enjoy the top destinations. Spending 3 days in Zhangjiajie is enough to visit Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon, and Tianmen Mountain. However, we highly recommend spending an extra 2 days in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park to fully appreciate its magnificence and natural beauty, since it is too large to fully explore in just 1 day. Travelers most often extend a Yunnan and Zhangjiajie trip to include Chengdu (2+ days) for spicy hot pots and giant pandas, visit Xi'an (2+ days) for historical and cultural heritages, or Guilin (3–4 days) for more natural beauty and rural scenery. 2. Itinerary Suggestions for Yunnan and Zhangjiajie Below are two itinerary ideas for inspiration. All of our itineraries are customizable so feel free to contact us for help with planning and arranging a hassle-free private tour that suits you perfectly. 1) 9-Day Yunnan and Zhangjiajie Tour • Days 1–2: Kunming (the Stone Forest, Dragon Gate, and Dian Lake) • Day 3: Dali (Dali Old Town) • Days 4–5: Lijiang (Lijiang Old Town and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain) • Day 6: Lijiang (fly to Changsha and then take a high-speed train to Zhangjiajie, taking about 7 hours) • Days 7–8: Zhangjiajie (Zhangjiajie National Forest Park and Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon with its glass bridge) • Day 9: Tianmen Mountain and departure This itinerary provides a quick experience of the main highlights of Yunnan and Zhangjiajie for first-timers with limited time. During your time in Yunnan, Kunming would be your first stop, welcoming you with its warm hospitality. The Stone Forest with its karst landscape and Dian Lake as the "Plateau Pearl" are the must-sees. Dali is a windy city with serene scenery. Wander through Dali Old Town, which is surrounded by mountains, with your private guide and try some local snacks. This would be a cozy way to experience the slow lifestyle. You must not miss out on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain in Lijiang. As you ascend the mountain slowly via a cable car, you would have a panoramic view of the beautiful scenery beneath: glaciers, primeval forests, meadows, springs... If Yunnan is compared to a colorful carpet, then Zhangjiajie is a surreal ink painting. Admire the towering Avatar mountains among the sea of clouds in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, walk on the transparent glass bridge to appreciate the scenery 400 meters (1,300 feet) below, and step up the stairway to 'Heaven's Gate' to witness the magnificence of Tianmen Mountain. 2) 15-Day Yunnan and Zhangjiajie Tour This itinerary allows you a more comprehensive exploration of Yunnan province. Extend your trip to the Yuanyang Rice Terraces from Kunming for the stunning sunrise and well-preserved Hani villages. Shangri-La is a popular extension with its mysterious Tibetan culture and rarely-visited snow-mountain scenery. Your local guide would lead you to appreciate the incredible view of a sunrise over the Meili Snow Mountains and visit Mingyong Glacier to feel the mystery and sacredness of unconquered virgin land. • Days 1–2: Arrive in Kunming, then take a train to Dali (Dali Old Town, Cang Mountain, and a biking tour around Erhai) • Days 3–4: Lijiang (Lijiang Old Town and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain) • Days 5–6: Shangri-La (Songzanlin Monastery, the Meili Snow Mountains, and a trekking tour to Yubeng Village) • Day 7: From Shangri-La fly to Kunming (about 1 hour) • Days 8–9: Kunming (the Stone Forest, Dragon Gate, and Dian Lake) • Days 10–11: Yuanyang (Yuanyang Rice Terraces and Laohuzui Rice Terraces) • Day 12: From Kunming fly to Zhangjiajie (about 2 hours) • Days 13–14: Zhangjiajie (Zhangjiajie National Forest Park and Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon with its glass bridge) • Day 15: Tianmen Mountain and departure 3. How to Travel between Yunnan and Zhangjiajie As the capital city of Yunnan province, Kunming has more flights and high-speed trains than other cities. Considering the convenient transportation, we recommend that you start your Yunnan trip from Kunming and then proceed to Zhangjiajie. The most convenient and fastest way to get between Kunming and Zhangjiajie is by taking a direct flight for about 2 hours. Direct flights are available every Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday. There are direct overnight train services between Kunming and Zhangjiajie taking about 16 or 19 hours. Other train/plane/bus options would need at least one stop and take longer than 7 hours. Flights and trains from cities like Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La would need at least one stop to get to Zhangjiajie, with more than 6 hours of flights and 10 hours of train journeys. The following table contains traffic information and is for reference only. Travel Route Flight (Approximately) Train (Approximately) Kunming–Zhangjiajie Direct: 2 hours Sleeper: 16 hours 1 stop: 7+ hours Dali–Zhangjiajie 1 stop: 6½–15 hours 1–2 stops: 10–19 hours Lijiang–Zhangjiajie 1 stop: 6 hours 1–2 stops: 11–23 hours Shangri-La–Zhangjiajie 1 stop: 9 hours 1–2 stops: 15–31 hours 4. The Best Times to Visit Yunnan and Zhangjiajie Yunnan and Zhangjiajie are year-round destinations that offer something whenever you plan to pay a visit. For good weather conditions, the best times to visit Yunnan and Zhangjiajie are March to May and September to November. During these periods, you could expect pleasant and comfortable weather with daily highs averaging 18°C (64°F). What's more, the temperature difference between day and night during these periods could make it easier to see the beautiful scenery of foggy mountains and the seas of clouds. Yunnan could be your winter escape with its year-round spring-like climate, with daytime temperatures typically ranging from 10–20°C (50–68°F). On the other hand, Zhangjiajie may present you with a snow-covered silver world. Although you could most easily enjoy wonderful outdoor activities not limited to hiking and biking, most people would like to avoid the summer season from June to August, due to it being the summer vacation in China, and it would become very crowded wherever you visit during this period. Chinese public holidays, particularly the National Day holiday (October 1st–7th) and the Labor Day holiday (May 1st–3rd), are also peak times. Make sure to avoid these periods, or book as early as possible if you plan to visit during these periods. 5. How Much Does It Cost for a Visit to Yunnan and Zhangjiajie? The travel costs in Yunnan and Zhangjiajie are quite good value. A private tour of Yunnan and Zhangjiajie would typically cost 180–200 USD per person per day, while a similar one in Beijing might cost about 200–250 USD. These prices include English-speaking guided touring, stays in 4-star hotels, entrance tickets to attractions, domestic airfares, and private transfers, guaranteeing you a hassle-free travel experience. • A decent 4-star hotel in the scenic areas costs about 150 USD per night during the peak season, but only about 100 USD per night for the other seasons. • The costs of entrance tickets for most attractions, such as the Stone Forest in Kunming, are about 18 USD per person, and it is about 32 USD per person for 4 days in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. • Experiences like tie-dying or cooking classes cost about 30 to 70 USD per person. • Direct flights between Kunming and Zhangjiajie typically cost between 120 and 170 USD for an economy-class ticket. Children under 10 years old could enjoy discounts ranging from 30% to 50%. Also, contact us as soon as possible to book your tour in advance and benefit from an early bird discount. • The economic development of Yunnan province and Zhangjiajie is relatively backward, which means that the hotel star ratings don't always meet the general standard. • For a comfortable travel experience, we recommend that you choose hotels with four stars and above, ensuring amenities such as Western-style breakfasts and English-speaking staff. • In Dali and Lijiang, we also recommend staying in selected boutique hotels that offer unique local charm and cultural experiences.Experiences like tie-dying or cooking classes cost about 30 to 70 USD per person. • Direct flights between Kunming and Zhangjiajie typically cost between 120 and 170 USD for an economy-class ticket.