ID: 3f0b5c26cea134d7
Title: Lugu Lake- Explore the Secluded Beauty and Matriarchal Mosuo
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/lijiang/attraction/lugu-lake.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Lugu Lake, at the border of Sichuan and Yunnan provinces and about 200 kilometers (124 miles) from Lijiang, is an alpine lake renowned for its stunning scenery and unique Mosuo culture. Lugu Lake is an idyllic beauty spot that is not yet overrun by tourists and is really worth visiting. The water is clear and the surroundings are peaceful and beautiful for you to relax and slow down. You could also discover the local Mosuo people — the last matriarchal society in the world- and get insights into their lives, traditions, and customs. Facts about Lugu Lake: • Chinese: 泸沽湖 Lúgū Hú /loo-goo hoo/ • Altitude: 2,685 meters (8,809 feet) — you may initially experience altitude sickness • Area: 50 square kilometers (19 square miles) • Popular activities: enjoy a campfire party, take a boat ride on the lake, visit a Mosuo family • Suitable for: anyone, especially anyone interested in minority cultures • Time needed: one or two days • Top Things to Do • How Long to Spend • How to Visit Lugu Lake • How to Get to Lugu Lake • Best Times to Visit • Where to Stay in Lugu Lake • About Altitude Sickness • Matriarchal Culture of Mosuo What Are the Most Popular Things to Do at Lugu Lake? 1. Explore the Must-See Attractions Lige Island is located at the foot of Gemu Goddess Mountain with one side connecting the land. The sunrise there is amazing. From the viewing platform, you could capture iconic shots of the heart-shaped bay. a distant view of Lige Island Gemu Goddess Mountain Gemu Goddess Mountain is the highest peak at Lugu Lake (3,754 m / 12,316 ft), making it perfect for viewing a sunrise, a sea of clouds, and especially the panoramic view of Lugu Lake. A chairlift is available to ascend, but you still need to climb up for 20–30 minutes. The Goddess Cave with bizarre stalactites could be interesting to visit, where you could even see a natural stalactite resembling the goddess Gemu of Mosuo people, but avoid the overpriced prayer items sold inside. Recommended photo spots: The "3450 Viewing Platform" near the 400th step The Goddess Cave During the chairlift descent Recommended photo spots: • The "3450 Viewing Platform" near the 400th step • The Goddess Cave • During the chairlift descent Grass Sea and Walking Marriage Bridge The grass sea is a wetland meadow landscape rarely seen in most lakes, making it a uniquely beautiful scenery of Lugu Lake. The fresh greenery would bring you a sense of tranquility, relaxation, and healing, and it is also perfect for you to take captivating photos. You would also see Walking Marriage Bridge spanning across the grass sea, a plank bridge signifying the love of Mosuo couples while also being a fantastic photo spot. Taking a boat ride or walking across the bridge is the regular way to admire the grass sea. But here is also a tip for you to enjoy a panoramic view: After arriving, there is a boardwalk on the opposite side of the road leading up the hill. You could enjoy a photogenic bird's-eye view of the entire grass sea and bridge. If you visit at about 4–5 pm, you will also capture a unique and beautiful sunset. Taking a boat ride or walking across the bridge is the regular way to admire the grass sea. But here is also a tip for you to enjoy a panoramic view: After arriving, there is a boardwalk on the opposite side of the road leading up the hill. You could enjoy a photogenic bird's-eye view of the entire grass sea and bridge. If you visit at about 4–5 pm, you will also capture a unique and beautiful sunset. Unlike the blue water in most areas, you could see picturesque jade water in Goddess Bay. It is one of the most beautiful bays in Lugu Lake, perfect for sunsets, starry nights, and photography. The best time to catch a sunset is from April to September. In winter, the sunset would be blocked by mountains due to the sun's deviation, leaving only the afterglow. Lovers' Beach, with expansive views and crystal-clear water, is best for viewing seagulls and sunsets. Legend has it that this is where Mosuo men and women dated, adding more romance that's ideal for couples to enjoy a lovely time. There are actually two lover beaches at Lugu Lake. The one in Sichuan is recommended as it is bigger, livelier, and has many beautiful photo settings for you to take selfies. 2. Immerse Yourself in the Enchanting Morning Mist Have you ever encountered a dreamy fairy-tale scene while paddling a canoe, bathed in the sunrise, and surrounded by ethereal mist and even hovering seagulls? If not, go there and experience the morning mist at Lugu Lake — it's a truly unique sight that draws many visitors to witness it. The ethereal morning mist of Lugu Lake Compared to other seasons, winter from December to February sees frequent and the most spectacular morning mists. Additionally, the best time to admire the mist is from 7–8:30 am. Recommended spots: Puluo Wharf Guanhai Wetland Wharf Love Wharf • Puluo Wharf • Guanhai Wetland Wharf • Love Wharf 3. Admire the Beauty of Floating Water Flowers The floating water flowers with white petals form one of the famous and iconic types of scenery at Lugu Lake. You could only admire this romantic scenery from May to October, with July and August being the period that they are in full bloom. The best way to visit is by taking a boat to the center of the lake, where you could see a vast expanse of flowers. In contrast, along the shore, the flowers are sparse. It is best to admire them in the morning as the flowers would wilt in the afternoon when the sun is strong. Water flowers in Lugu Lake 4. Take Part in a Campfire Party In Luoshui and Lige, you may have a chance to take part in a campfire party arranged by local villagers. You pay about 30 yuan to join in. Even if it's not as authentic as it once was, it is still a good way to relate to local people and experience their way of life. 5. Take a Boat Ride on the Lake Boating is a good way of exploring the lake and the islands. Local boats are made from thick logs and are known as zhucaochuan (/joo-tsao-chwan/ 'pig-trough boats'). You could charter a boat to see the beautiful lake scenery and enjoy a leisurely morning (best for admiring the morning mist and water flowers) or afternoon (best for catching a sunset). 6. Pay a Home Visit to a Mosuo Family If you want to have close contact with local Mosuo people, we could arrange a home visit. You could see their house, talk with the family, and even eat with them. It is a great way to get to know about their daily lives and learn about local folk culture. Home visit to a Mosuo Family How Many Days to Spend at Lugu Lake It is advisable to spend 2–3 days visiting Lugu Lake. It allows for a more leisurely travel pace and enough time for visiting. Recommended Itineraries (Start from Lijiang) For a 2-day trip, after arriving at Lugu Lake, it is better to take a leisurely boat ride around Lige Island in the afternoon to relax from the tiring morning drive, so we don't recommend arranging a car tour on the first day. • Day 1: Lijiang to Lugu Lake in the morning, then a leisurely afternoon boat ride around Lige Island • Day 2: round-lake car tour, visiting the grass sea and Lovers' Beach, departure in the evening A 3-day trip gives you more time to explore more attractions and enjoy a richer experience, such as a moderate hiking trip and a campfire party: • Day 1: Lugu Lake arrival, enjoy your afternoon boat ride • Day 2: travel around the lake, moderate hiking, a Mosuo campfire party at night • Day 3: immerse yourself in the tranquil vibe of the lake, departure Read more about our 3-Day Lugu Lake Tour. Is It Possible to Take a Day Trip from Lijiang? A day trip from Lijiang by private vehicle is possible, but we don't recommend it as it takes 7–8 hours traveling back and forth, leaving you with only a few hours for visiting unless you get up at 6 am. Additionally, it would be really tiring. Is It Possible to Take a Day Trip from Lijiang? A day trip from Lijiang by private vehicle is possible, but we don't recommend it as it takes 7–8 hours traveling back and forth, leaving you with only a few hours for visiting unless you get up at 6 am. Additionally, it would be really tiring. How to Travel Around Lugu Lake Lugu Lake offers diverse ways for you to visit, such as by driving a car, taking a boat ride, cycling, hiking, and even riding on a scooter. The best way to tour Lugu Lake is by chartering a car for a round-lake tour to visit the lakeside attractions and combining this with a boat ride to the islands to enjoy the tranquil water. It is also more leisurely, making it suitable for visitors of all ages. If you're more active, you could try cycling or hiking just a section of the lake to explore the unique scenery. For cycling, the section from Dazu Village to the town at Lugu Lake is flatter and more beautiful. For hiking, Axiayou Valley near Daluoshui Village is an ideal spot, as well as the part from Luokui North Wharf to Goddess Bay. However, self-driving and riding a scooter around the lake are not recommended as the tortuous roads make it more difficult for tourists. In addition, buses and taxis are also hard to find due to its remote location. Must-experienced boat riding How Can I Get to Lugu Lake? Transport from Lijiang: The best way to reach Lugu Lake from Lijiang is by minivan or to hire a car, taking about 3½–4 hours. You could also take a bus, which takes a similar time and ultimately reaches the passenger station near Daluoshui Village. Transport from Kunming: A direct flight from Kunming to the lake's airport (Ninglang Luguhu Airport) is the most convenient way, taking 1 hour and 15 minutes. After landing, it takes you about 40 minutes to transfer to Lugu Lake from the airport. Transport from Dali: The best direct way to get from Dali to Lugu Lake is also by car, taking about 3½–4 hours. However, there are no direct buses available. Chartering a car to Lugu Lake and traveling around the lake with a local guide is the most popular choice for most visitors. If you also require a private car service but have no idea where to find one, China Highlights is always here and happy to offer help. Just contact us. What Are the Best Times to Visit Lugu Lake? The best times to visit Lugu Lake are spring (March to May) and autumn (September to November). With stable weather and more clear days, it is easier for you to see the vibrant blue lake and enjoy comfortable daytime temperatures between 18°C and 25°C (64–77°F). There are also fewer visitors and the hotels are more cost-effective. If you're looking to see the colorful beauty, autumn is better. It is the most picturesque season of Lugu Lake, with a golden grass sea, reeds, and blooming gesang flowers. In comparison, spring landscapes are relatively plain, but from late March to April, it's perfect for viewing flowers. Summer from June to August is cool at Lugu Lake (15–25°C/59–77°F), but it also experiences frequent rainfall. However, if the weather is sunny, Lugu Lake is pleasant to visit as it is the best time to admire the seasonal water flowers, splendid sunsets, and the most verdant grass sea. Winter may be a good time to visit Lugu Lake if you prefer fewer visitors and more clear days. This season is also best for viewing seagulls and morning mist. The daytime temperatures are about 10–15°C (50–59°F) during winter. However, you still need to keep warm. The temperature may drop to minus degrees in the mornings and evenings. 7-Day Yunnan Minorities Cultural Tour: Kunming, Dali and Lijiang 7-Day Yunnan Minorities Cultural Tour: Kunming, Dali and Lijiang 7-Day Yunnan Minorities Cultural Tour: Kunming, Dali and Lijiang Where to Stay at Lugu Lake Daluoshui Village: As the largest accommodation area of Lugu Lake, it is highly recommended for its lakeview hotels, convenient transport, complete facilities, and variety of food options. Dazu Village: It is more authentic and artistic, also offering more hotels with lakeside views, and suitable if you seek somewhere quiet. If you want to witness a sunrise over Gemu Goddess Mountain, it would be the best choice. However, it is relatively far away and not ideal for public transport. Langfang Village: As a newly developed area, you could find more high-end boutique hotels with better decoration. However, the hotel prices are higher and transport is less convenient. Will I Encounter Altitude Sickness at Lugu Lake? Lugu Lake, with an average elevation of 2,685 meters (8,809 feet), could be accepted by most visitors. However, you still have the possibility of encountering altitude sickness, especially on Gemu Goddess Mountain. If you feel uncomfortable while visiting, a portable oxygen bottle may help, and you could also prepare some foods that are high in calories and sugar, such as Coca-Cola, Snickers, and other types of chocolate. Does the Matriarchal Culture of Mosuo Still Exist? The Mosuo are known for their unique matriarchal society and "walking marriages". Most couples do not actually marry, and women and men live in their mothers' homes respectively. At night, men might walk to the houses of the women and then return to their own homes in the morning, and children are raised by their mothers and maternal uncles. Today, walking marriages are rarely seen among younger generations of the Mosuo, since most young people now choose to marry. However, you could still experience their strong matrilineal cultural atmosphere and gain an insight into the walking marriage tradition and their way of life.