ID: 3c5e4049de0d8c76
Title: Summer Palace in Beijing: How to Visit
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/beijing/attraction/summer-palace.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The Summer Palace is the best-preserved imperial garden in the world and one of the largest of its kind still in existence in China today. In 1750, Emperor Qianlong (who reigned from 1735 to 1796) ordered the rebuilding of the Garden of Clear Ripples (the original name of the Summer Palace) to celebrate his mother's 60th birthday. As a local guide, I bring clients to visit the Summer Palace about 80 to 90 times a year. We not only witness the extravagant life of the imperial family but also marvel at the ingenious combination of man-made architecture with the scenic beauty of nature, showcasing the wisdom of skilled craftsmen. I always tell my clients that the largest and most sumptuous gardens or palaces in Beijing were all imperial gardens, serving the emperor's family to demonstrate the supremacy of imperial power. Lily Liu 10+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hello, I am Lily. I have lived in Beijing for more than 18 years. I love this city and enjoy sharing its rich history and interesting stories with our clients. We discover unique food from local restaurants, and sometimes we share our life stories with each other like old friends. Looking forward to meeting you in Beijing. 10+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hello, I am Lily. I have lived in Beijing for more than 18 years. I love this city and enjoy sharing its rich history and interesting stories with our clients. We discover unique food from local restaurants, and sometimes we share our life stories with each other like old friends. Looking forward to meeting you in Beijing. Facts about the Summer Palace: • Ticket Price: 30 RMB • Opening Time: 6 AM to 7 PM • Location: 20 kilometers from the city center • Suggested Duration: 2-3 hours • Size: 2.9 square kilometers • Age: 261 years (completed in 1764) • What to Do • Three Main Routes • Best Time • Transportation • Other Useful Tips • Its History • Old Summer Palace vs the Summer Palace What to Do in the Summer Palace There are three scenic spots that I highly recommend: The Great Theatre, the Long Corridor, and the Dragon Boat. The Great Theatre is where Empress Dowager Cixi enjoyed Peking opera. It took three years to complete, finishing in 1895, just in time for Empress Dowager Cixi's 60th birthday celebration. It stands 21 meters high and 17 meters wide, making it the largest of the three major theatres built during the Qing Dynasty. Few people visit, so it is quite peaceful. The Long Corridor is 728 meters long and features 14,000 paintings, each depicting different stories from Chinese history, folklore, and legends. In 1990, the Long Corridor was listed in the Guinness World Records as the longest painted corridor in the world. The Dragon Boat Cruise Our guests took a dragon boat cruise I highly recommend the Dragon Boat because it offers beautiful views of the 200-hectare lake. While sitting in the Dragon Boat, you can enjoy a panoramic view of the entire Summer Palace and capture many unique photos and videos. Tips: The Dragon Boat service stops from November 8th until April. There are two types of Dragon Boats: one is a straight-line boat that takes ten minutes from the Bronze Cow to the Marble Boat, while the other surrounds the lake and takes half an hour from the 17 Arch Bridge to the ship docks. If time permits, I suggest the latter for more scenic views. The Dragon Boat service stops from November 8th until April. There are two types of Dragon Boats: one is a straight-line boat that takes ten minutes from the Bronze Cow to the Marble Boat, while the other surrounds the lake and takes half an hour from the 17 Arch Bridge to the ship docks. If time permits, I suggest the latter for more scenic views. There are Three Main Routes to Visit the Summer Palace There are four gates in the Summer Palace. • The East Palace Gate: • The Northern Palace Gate • The Ruyi Gate • The New Palace Gate For first-time visitors, we usually suggest entering through the East Palace Gate or the New Palace Gate to experience the main attractions effectively. If this is your second visit, you can consider the Northern Palace Gate or Ruyi Gate to avoid crowds and enjoy a peaceful visit. They are farther from the main attractions compared to East Palace Gate and New Palace Gate. East Palace Gate → Hall of Benevolence and Longevity → Great Theatre → Hall of Happiness and Longevity → Long Corridor → Hall of Dispelling Clouds → Marble Boat → Dragon Boat → Southern Lake Island → 17 Arch Bridge → New Palace Gate. This route takes 2.5 to 3 hours, suitable for those in good physical condition. It covers most parts of the Summer Palace. When you arrive at the Hall of Dispelling Clouds, you can climb Longevity Mountain to reach the Tower of Buddhist Incense, where Empress Dowager Cixi used to worship. A statue of Guanyin bodhisattva with a thousand hands and eyes is located on the first floor of the tower, which is also the highest point in the Summer Palace, offering a view of the entire Kunming Lake. New Palace Gate → Dragon Boat (10 minutes) → Long Corridor → Hall of Happiness and Longevity → Hall of Benevolence and Longevity → East Palace Gate. This route takes 1.5 to 2 hours and is better suited for people aged 50 to 70. When you enter through the New Palace Gate and stand near the Bronze Cow, you can feel as if you are in a living scroll painting, surrounded by perfect and unrivaled beauty. This is also my favorite route because it allows us to see the entire Summer Palace from the Bronze Cow and visit the most important sights, all while enjoying the Dragon Boat ride on the lake. East Palace Gate → Hall of Benevolence and Longevity → Heralding Spring Island (great for photos) → 17 Arch Bridge → New Palace Gate. This route takes 1 to 1.5 hours without the Dragon Boat in winter and is easier for wheelchair users and those who prefer not to walk much. Heralding Spring Island is the best spot for photos of the lake and Longevity Hill. If you are lucky, you may see the golden light shining through the hole in winter. The golden light is shining through the hole in the Summer Palace in Beijing. • 5-Day Beijing Family Tour • 8-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Tour Best Time to Visit the Summer Palace The best time to visit the Summer Palace is in spring (from late March to May) when there are fewer people and many flowers, such as magnolias, peach blossoms, and begonias, are in bloom. The Summer Palace is in full flower bloom in spring In summer (June to August), there are fewer visitors in June, but many more in July and August due to school holidays in China. The weather is hot (35°C-40°C) and humid, but lotus flowers bloom along the lake, creating a beautiful scene. Our guests visiting the Summer Palace in the summer Autumn (September to October) offers nice, cool weather for visiting the Summer Palace, with fewer crowds, except during the National Day holiday from October 1st to 7th. Willow Bridge in Autumn In winter, it can be very cold (-5°C to -15°C) and windy, but there are fewer visitors. The most important sight in winter is the golden light shining through the hole (金光穿洞). This phenomenon occurs at sunset through the 17 Arch Bridge, and many photographers wait nearby for this moment. The golden light shining through the 17-hole • 4-Day Emperor's Tour of Beijing • See more Beijing tour ideas. How to Get to the Summer Palace Local residents prefer to take Subway Line 4 or public buses to the Summer Palace. The subway station is near the Northern Palace Gate, about a 7-minute walk away. For foreigners, I suggest taking a private car or joining a private tour for convenience and time-saving. You can check our well designed Beijing tour itineraries for inspiration or contact us to tailor make a personal trip for you. Other Useful Tips to Make Your Trip More Enjoyable If you want to wear traditional costume clothing, there is a shop near the Pavilion of Heralding Spring that is easy to find. Taking costume photos in the Summer Palace Avoid the "black" tour guide: "Black" tour guides often linger outside and inside the East Palace Gate. They lack a guide's certificate and are unprofessional, often charging high prices. If you encounter them, please do not stop or engage in conversation. Wheel-chair friendly: There are accessible paths for wheelchair users, making it convenient for people with disabilities. Most of the area is fairly flat ground. Summer Palace History: From Qing Dynasty to Modern China Construction — began in 1750: Emperor Qianlong ordered the construction of the Summer Palace to celebrate his mother's sixtieth birthday. The garden was built in 1750 and completed in 1764. At that time, it was not called the Summer Palace or even Yiheyuan, but Qingyiyuan (Clear Ripples Garden). In the late Qing Dynasty, due to the weakening of national power, the garden was gradually abandoned. In 1860, it was destroyed by British and French allied forces. Empress Dowager Cixi rebuilt the garden as her summer retreat and renamed it the Summer Palace (Yiheyuan), its current name. Military expenditures were diverted for this reconstruction, contributing to the Qing government's defeat in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1895. In 1900, it was destroyed again by the Allied Forces of the Eight Powers during the Boxer Rebellion but was rebuilt in 1902. Opened to the Public — 1914: After the Qing Dynasty ended in 1912, the Summer Palace became the private property of the former imperial family. Two years later, it was opened to the public. In 1928, the Beijing municipal government took charge of the Summer Palace and turned it into a public park. What are the Old Summer Palace and the Summer Palace? The Old Summer Palace Both the Summer Palace and the Old Summer Palace (Yuanmingyuan) are imperial palaces from feudal society. The Old Summer Palace was built in 1707 and served as a residence for the emperor. It is considered the second Forbidden City. However, it was destroyed by French and British soldiers in 1860 and has never been rebuilt. The Summer Palace is where the emperor and empress enjoyed their summer holidays. It was also damaged by the French and British in 1860 but was rebuilt in 1888 and 1903. Personally I more recommend the Summer Palace as there is more to see. If you have enough time and are truly interested in the history of what the French and British did, you can visit the Old Summer Palace or both. Here is one of our most popular tour plans including the Summer Palace and we are ready to tailor-make a tour especially for you: