ID: 33c30228a6ddbd31
Title: Best (& Worst) Times to Visit Beijing: Travel Tips for 12 Months
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/beijing/best-time-to-visit.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-06-25T00:00:00
================================================================================

The best times to visit Beijing are spring (April and May) and fall (September and early November), when, on average, the weather is the most pleasant and the views are the most spectacular. However, good weather also means increased costs and tourists. Is there a time that has good weather while benefiting from smaller crowds and affordable prices? Take a look at our weather tips and recommendations below. • Best Times for Weather • Best Times for the Great Wall • Best Times for Family Trips • Best Times for Low Prices • Best Times for Festivals • The Worst Times • Guide by Month Best Times to Visit Beijing for Good Weather The best times to visit Beijing for pleasant weather are spring and autumn. Spring (April to May) offers mild temperatures with usually 13–26°C (55–79°F), clear skies, and blooming flowers, making it a delightful time to explore the city's historical sites and parks. Autumn (September to early November) offers crisp, dry air and comfortable temperatures ranging from 13–23°C (55–73°F), creating a picturesque backdrop for your sightseeing adventures. It is also good to take a city walk. Accordingly, these periods usually attract more tourists and see higher prices. Our tips: Traveling before or after the most popular times is a smart value-for-money choice, such as late March or mid November. These are transition periods. The weather won't vary very much, which means you could enjoy a less touristy environment and a better price while still enjoying decent weather. Traveling before or after the most popular times is a smart value-for-money choice, such as late March or mid November. These are transition periods. The weather won't vary very much, which means you could enjoy a less touristy environment and a better price while still enjoying decent weather. Best Times to Visit the Great Wall The best time to visit the Great Wall is from September to early November, with less rain, comfortable temperatures, and more clear days for you to enjoy hiking and photography. We highly recommend visiting the Mutianyu Great Wall in late October or early November to enjoy the vibrant red leaves covering the mountains, especially at sunset. See our 6-Day Beijing Autumn Tour. Red leaves in the Mutianyu The Great Wall could be visited in any season, as each has its charm, such as flowers in Spring and white snow in Winter. See more on The Best Times to Visit the Great Wall. 2-Day Jiankou Wild Great Wall Camping Tour 2-Day Jiankou Wild Great Wall Camping Tour 2-Day Jiankou Wild Great Wall Camping Tour Best Times to Visit Beijing for a Family Trip For families with children in school, your travel time would usually need to be matched to your children's school timetable. The summer vacation (June to August) is usually the available time for a trip. Among these months, June is the most pleasant. The weather is warm but not too hot, tourist crowds are lighter than in July or early August, and prices tend to be more reasonable. If June isn't possible, you could consider traveling in mid-to-late August, when domestic travel peaks have passed and many local students are already back in school. If you are planning a family trip to China, you could get ideas and tips from our How to Plan Your First-Time Family Trip to China. You could also contact us to customize your itinerary to meet and balance your whole family's interests and requirements without any hassles. 5-Day Beijing Family Tour present a vivid Beijing to you and give you a memorable family occasion 5-Day Beijing Family Tour present a vivid Beijing to you and give you a memorable family occasion 5-Day Beijing Family Tour present a vivid Beijing to you and give you a memorable family occasion 5-Day Beijing Family Tour present a vivid Beijing to you and give you a memorable family occasion Best Times to Visit Beijing for Low Prices Winter (December to February) is the off-season in Beijing. Hotel prices are relatively low and there are fewer crowds except for in late December because of the Christmas and New Year celebrations. The temperature in winter is usually -5–4°C (23–39°F), cold and dry, but winter also brings its own travel charm. You could explore the Forbidden City dusted in snow, go ice skating at the Summer Palace, or relax in hot springs at Gubei Water Town. See our 6-Day Beijing Winter Tour with Skiing. Snow scenery in the Forbidden City Best Times to Visit Beijing for Festivals If you want to experience traditional Chinese festivals and culture in Beijing, the Spring Festival (Chinese New Year), usually celebrated in February, is the most vibrant. You could join lively events like the Ditan Temple Fair. Lanterns, spring couplets, paper cuttings, and dragon and lion dance performances create a sea of red that reflects the local people's eager hopes and joyful celebrations for a good new year. Lion dance during the Spring Festival For a deeper immersion in the festival, you could also learn how to make dumplings, a must-eat food for Beijing locals during the Spring Festival. If you have interest, join us 6-Day Beijing Chinese New Year Tour. Our tips: Book your hotel and flights 2-3 months in advance, as prices are higher during the Spring Festival. Book your hotel and flights 2-3 months in advance, as prices are higher during the Spring Festival. The Worst Times to Visit Beijing We generally don't recommend visiting Beijing during peak tourism periods, as the city gets very crowded, especially at popular spots like the Great Wall and the Forbidden City. These busy times usually fall in July and August, plus China's two golden weeks for tourism: May Day (May 1–5) and National Day (October 1–7). Our tips: Choose to travel before or after these holidays. That way, you could avoid the crowds and enjoy a more reasonable price. Choose to travel before or after these holidays. That way, you could avoid the crowds and enjoy a more reasonable price. Feel free to contact us to arrange your trip. We will design the best itinerary for you based on your interests and requirements. 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing Travel Guide by Month Click the links for each month below to check out more detailed Beijing weather and travel guide information. • January • February • August • September • October • November • December Beijing in January Average daily temperature range: -6–3°C (21–37°F) Average rainy days: 5 Average sunny days: 26 In January, Beijing experiences occasional snowfall with cold temperatures, but indoor heating systems keep things cozy. January is Beijing's off-peak season, except for the New Year holiday (January 1–3), making it a cost-effective choice. Visiting the Great Wall and the Forbidden City during this time offers magic snowy landscapes. Ice skating, skiing and enjoying hot springs are also good options. See more on Beijing Weather in January. • Average daily temperature range: -6–3°C (21–37°F) • Average rainy days: 5 • Average sunny days: 26 In January, Beijing experiences occasional snowfall with cold temperatures, but indoor heating systems keep things cozy. January is Beijing's off-peak season, except for the New Year holiday (January 1–3), making it a cost-effective choice. Visiting the Great Wall and the Forbidden City during this time offers magic snowy landscapes. Ice skating, skiing and enjoying hot springs are also good options. See more on Beijing Weather in January. Beijing in February Average daily temperature range: -4–6°C (25–43°F) Average rainy days: 4 Average sunny days: 24 February is the third-coldest month in Beijing. Other than the lively Spring Festival period, the city is relatively quiet this month. You could enjoy a more relaxed and peaceful travel experience. During the Spring Festival, major attractions remain open, including the Great Wall and the Forbidden City. The Ice Lantern Festival at Longqing Gorge is a great winter outing. You could see ice and snow sculptures with trendy designs and try out the thrilling ice slides. See more on Beijing Weather in February. 15-Day Private China Nature and Panda Tours Shenzhen– Beijing– Pingyao–Chengdu–Guilin • Average daily temperature range: -4–6°C (25–43°F) • Average rainy days: 4 • Average sunny days: 24 February is the third-coldest month in Beijing. Other than the lively Spring Festival period, the city is relatively quiet this month. You could enjoy a more relaxed and peaceful travel experience. During the Spring Festival, major attractions remain open, including the Great Wall and the Forbidden City. The Ice Lantern Festival at Longqing Gorge is a great winter outing. You could see ice and snow sculptures with trendy designs and try out the thrilling ice slides. See more on Beijing Weather in February. 15-Day Private China Nature and Panda Tours Shenzhen– Beijing– Pingyao–Chengdu–Guilin 15-Day Private China Nature and Panda Tours Shenzhen– Beijing– Pingyao–Chengdu–Guilin 15-Day Private China Nature and Panda Tours Shenzhen– Beijing– Pingyao–Chengdu–Guilin Beijing in March Average daily temperature range: 3–15°C (37–59°F) Average rainy days: 4 Average sunny days: 27 March sees Beijing's transition out of winter and into spring. The weather starts to warm up slightly, although it can still be a bit chilly. The signs of spring, like budding trees and clearer skies, start to appear. March could be a good time to visit Beijing, especially if you're looking for favorable prices and a quieter travel environment. See more on Beijing Weather in March. • Average daily temperature range: 3–15°C (37–59°F) • Average rainy days: 4 • Average sunny days: 27 March sees Beijing's transition out of winter and into spring. The weather starts to warm up slightly, although it can still be a bit chilly. The signs of spring, like budding trees and clearer skies, start to appear. March could be a good time to visit Beijing, especially if you're looking for favorable prices and a quieter travel environment. See more on Beijing Weather in March. Beijing in April Average daily temperature range: 10–23°C (50–73°F) Average rainy days: 4 Average sunny days: 26 In April, Beijing enters spring. The Great Wall displays rejuvenated vegetation while flowers bloom in parks across the city. For example, you could see cherry blossoms at Yuyuantan Park in early April. The pleasant weather marks the beginning of the peak season. Despite increased visitors compared to the off-season, April offers a manageable crowd level. Various activities are suitable, such as hiking the Great Wall and embarking on a food tour. See more on Beijing Weather in April. 21-Day China and Silk Road Tour China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour • Average daily temperature range: 10–23°C (50–73°F) • Average rainy days: 4 • Average sunny days: 26 In April, Beijing enters spring. The Great Wall displays rejuvenated vegetation while flowers bloom in parks across the city. For example, you could see cherry blossoms at Yuyuantan Park in early April. The pleasant weather marks the beginning of the peak season. Despite increased visitors compared to the off-season, April offers a manageable crowd level. Various activities are suitable, such as hiking the Great Wall and embarking on a food tour. See more on Beijing Weather in April. 21-Day China and Silk Road Tour China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour 21-Day China and Silk Road Tour China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour 21-Day China and Silk Road Tour China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour Beijing in May Average daily temperature range: 16–29°C (61–84°F) Average rainy days: 5 Average sunny days: 26 May brings warm temperatures and blooming greenery, making it one of the most beautiful months to visit Beijing. It's great for walking tours, outdoor activities, and exploring historical sites in full spring charm. However, the Labor Day holiday (May 1–5) is one of China's busiest travel periods. If you're traveling during this period, make sure to book tickets and hotels at least a month in advance. If your schedule allows, we recommend planning your trip after the holiday to avoid the crowds and get a better travel experience. See more on Beijing Weather in May. 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China • Average daily temperature range: 16–29°C (61–84°F) • Average rainy days: 5 • Average sunny days: 26 May brings warm temperatures and blooming greenery, making it one of the most beautiful months to visit Beijing. It's great for walking tours, outdoor activities, and exploring historical sites in full spring charm. However, the Labor Day holiday (May 1–5) is one of China's busiest travel periods. If you're traveling during this period, make sure to book tickets and hotels at least a month in advance. If your schedule allows, we recommend planning your trip after the holiday to avoid the crowds and get a better travel experience. See more on Beijing Weather in May. 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China Beijing in June Average daily temperature range: 21–32°C (70–90°F) Average rainy days: 9 Average sunny days: 21 June is a good choice for family travel to avoid the upcoming peak time of July and August. Beijing starts to get hot in June. Consider visiting the Great Wall in early morning, late afternoon or at night to avoid the daytime heat. Enjoying an evening culinary adventure is another ideal option. Alternatively, Beijing offers many summer resorts, such as the Summer Palace, Shilin Gorge, and Chengde Summer Resort. See more on Beijing Weather in June. 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu –Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Land of Pandas • Average daily temperature range: 21–32°C (70–90°F) • Average rainy days: 9 • Average sunny days: 21 June is a good choice for family travel to avoid the upcoming peak time of July and August. Beijing starts to get hot in June. Consider visiting the Great Wall in early morning, late afternoon or at night to avoid the daytime heat. Enjoying an evening culinary adventure is another ideal option. Alternatively, Beijing offers many summer resorts, such as the Summer Palace, Shilin Gorge, and Chengde Summer Resort. See more on Beijing Weather in June. 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu –Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Land of Pandas 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu –Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Land of Pandas 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu –Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Land of Pandas Beijing in July Average daily temperature range: 24–33°C (75–91°F) Average rainy days: 12 Average sunny days: 19 In July, China's summer vacation begins and Beijing sees an influx of tourists. To avoid domestic crowds and escape the heat or occasional rain, we could arrange various indoor activities for you. You could take a family visit to the hutongs to learn calligraphy and paper cutting, or relax with afternoon tea in beautiful surroundings. Beijing's vibrant nightlife also offers solutions, such as a nighttime food hunting discovery tour or a night tour of the Great Wall. You could get more ideas and tips on How to Plan a Summer Trip to China. See more on Beijing Weather in July. 16-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Beijing – Lhasa – Shigatse Classic Guilin and Tibet Tour • Average daily temperature range: 24–33°C (75–91°F) • Average rainy days: 12 • Average sunny days: 19 In July, China's summer vacation begins and Beijing sees an influx of tourists. To avoid domestic crowds and escape the heat or occasional rain, we could arrange various indoor activities for you. You could take a family visit to the hutongs to learn calligraphy and paper cutting, or relax with afternoon tea in beautiful surroundings. Beijing's vibrant nightlife also offers solutions, such as a nighttime food hunting discovery tour or a night tour of the Great Wall. You could get more ideas and tips on How to Plan a Summer Trip to China. See more on Beijing Weather in July. 16-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Beijing – Lhasa – Shigatse Classic Guilin and Tibet Tour 16-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Beijing – Lhasa – Shigatse Classic Guilin and Tibet Tour 16-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Beijing – Lhasa – Shigatse Classic Guilin and Tibet Tour Beijing in August Average daily temperature range: 23–32°C (73–90°F) Average rainy days: 9 Average sunny days: 22 August is also a peak season month in Beijing, but the number of tourists decreases after the middle of the month as the summer vacation ends. Museums, such as the National Museum, provide an immersion in knowledge and could be a good choice to get respite from the heat. Enjoying an imperial banquet (Gong Yan) is both a culinary and cultural experience. Dressing in traditional attire will make you feel even more immersed. See more on Beijing Weather in August. 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders • Average daily temperature range: 23–32°C (73–90°F) • Average rainy days: 9 • Average sunny days: 22 August is also a peak season month in Beijing, but the number of tourists decreases after the middle of the month as the summer vacation ends. Museums, such as the National Museum, provide an immersion in knowledge and could be a good choice to get respite from the heat. Enjoying an imperial banquet (Gong Yan) is both a culinary and cultural experience. Dressing in traditional attire will make you feel even more immersed. See more on Beijing Weather in August. 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders Beijing in September Average daily temperature range: 17–27°C (63–81°F) Average rainy days: 6 Average sunny days: 24 September's warm and sunny weather makes it one of the best months to explore Beijing. The favorable conditions suit various activities, such as hiking or camping on the Great Wall, taking a relaxing city walk, or biking along the Beijing's central axis. The clear blue skies in September provide a perfect backdrop for sightseeing, especially if you want to wear traditional Qing-style clothing and take memorable photos at the Forbidden City. Even better, the summer crowds have mostly gone. Compared to July and August, you'll enjoy fewer tourists and a more enjoyable travel experience. See more on Beijing Weather in September. • Average daily temperature range: 17–27°C (63–81°F) • Average rainy days: 6 • Average sunny days: 24 September's warm and sunny weather makes it one of the best months to explore Beijing. The favorable conditions suit various activities, such as hiking or camping on the Great Wall, taking a relaxing city walk, or biking along the Beijing's central axis. The clear blue skies in September provide a perfect backdrop for sightseeing, especially if you want to wear traditional Qing-style clothing and take memorable photos at the Forbidden City. Even better, the summer crowds have mostly gone. Compared to July and August, you'll enjoy fewer tourists and a more enjoyable travel experience. See more on Beijing Weather in September. Beijing in October Average daily temperature range: 9–19°C (48–66°F) Average rainy days: 7 Average sunny days: 23 With clear and cool weather, October in Beijing is ideal for admiring autumn landscapes. You could marvel at the stunning golden ginkgo trees in the Forbidden City and enjoy the vibrant red leaves along the Great Wall or in Fragrant Hills Park. If you're into photography or simply love capturing memories, the sunset view at Jinshanling is a must-see. However, avoid visiting during the National Day holiday (October 1-7), when crowds are at their peak. See more on Beijing Weather in October. 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm • Average daily temperature range: 9–19°C (48–66°F) • Average rainy days: 7 • Average sunny days: 23 With clear and cool weather, October in Beijing is ideal for admiring autumn landscapes. You could marvel at the stunning golden ginkgo trees in the Forbidden City and enjoy the vibrant red leaves along the Great Wall or in Fragrant Hills Park. If you're into photography or simply love capturing memories, the sunset view at Jinshanling is a must-see. However, avoid visiting during the National Day holiday (October 1-7), when crowds are at their peak. See more on Beijing Weather in October. 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm Beijing in November Average daily temperature range: 1–10°C (34–50°F) Average rainy days: 5 Average sunny days: 25 In November, temperatures start to drop in Beijing and the city enters the off-peak season. Many of Beijing's attractions are architectural and cultural landmarks, which are less affected by weather changes. Therefore, November is a favorable time to explore the city. It offers budget-friendly travel, cool and mostly dry weather, and a better overall experience with fewer crowds. October 1st to 10th is your last chance to catch the autumn colors. Later in the month, as the weather turns colder, soaking in hot springs and enjoying food are great ways to stay warm. See more on Beijing Weather in November. • Average daily temperature range: 1–10°C (34–50°F) • Average rainy days: 5 • Average sunny days: 25 In November, temperatures start to drop in Beijing and the city enters the off-peak season. Many of Beijing's attractions are architectural and cultural landmarks, which are less affected by weather changes. Therefore, November is a favorable time to explore the city. It offers budget-friendly travel, cool and mostly dry weather, and a better overall experience with fewer crowds. October 1st to 10th is your last chance to catch the autumn colors. Later in the month, as the weather turns colder, soaking in hot springs and enjoying food are great ways to stay warm. See more on Beijing Weather in November. Beijing in December Average daily temperature range: -5–4°C (23–39°F) Average rainy days: 7 Average sunny days: 24 December in Beijing often sees the city's first winter snowfall and major ski resorts are open for skiing. Popular attractions, such as the Forbidden City and the Great Wall, tend to have fewer visitors, providing a better visiting experience. If you celebrate Christmas with kids, Universal Studio Beijing is a great choice. You could watch the Christmas performance, interact with Santa Claus and take pictures of the illuminated Christmas tree. Shougang Park comes alive with a dazzling light show and live concert on New Year's Eve, bringing festive cheer to all. See more on Beijing Weather in December. • Average daily temperature range: -5–4°C (23–39°F) • Average rainy days: 7 • Average sunny days: 24 December in Beijing often sees the city's first winter snowfall and major ski resorts are open for skiing. Popular attractions, such as the Forbidden City and the Great Wall, tend to have fewer visitors, providing a better visiting experience. If you celebrate Christmas with kids, Universal Studio Beijing is a great choice. You could watch the Christmas performance, interact with Santa Claus and take pictures of the illuminated Christmas tree. Shougang Park comes alive with a dazzling light show and live concert on New Year's Eve, bringing festive cheer to all. See more on Beijing Weather in December. Recommended Beijing Tours We are ready to solve the problems of planning a complex trip in an unfamiliar region, saving your time and effort while ensuring that your travel needs and desires are met. Just contact us. Or start from a recommended itinerary — all of our tours can be customized: • 4-Day Beijing Private Tour • 4-Day Beijing Highlights and Great Wall Night Tour