ID: 3adc55338a814418
Title: 3-Hour Walking Tour in Chengdu People's Park and Learning Mahjong
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chengdu/3-hour-learning-mahjong-in-chengdu-park.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ The People's Park has a long history and is where to go for an authentic taste of the Chengdu laid-back lifestyle. Although some people may shy away from crowded areas, one of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. In the park, you should not miss is to drink a cup of tea at Heming Teahouse and experience a Chengdu specialty, like Mahjong, ear cleaning, etc. Taking this 3-hour activity not only to learn some special events of Chengdu, but also to experience playing Mahjong and understand the tremendous impact that Mahjong causes on people and the society. Tour Highlights Walking tour to see Chengdu's life with a local English-speaking guide in People's Park. Learn how to play Mahjong in a simple way from your guide and feel the fun of it. Sip a cup of Chinese covered-bowl tea in a famous teahouse. Have a chance to know tea etiquette, local history and culture of Chengdu. Detailed Itinerary Close All Before Your Tour Day You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting location after your booking. Our guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the guide. 14:00 - 15:30 PMVisit People's Park We will meet at 14:00PM at People's Park Subway Station EXIT A. Firstly, our walking tour will start to visit the famous People's Park in Chengdu. One of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. From this tour, shoulder by shoulder with locals to see the unique Chengdu's lifestyle and culture. The gate of People's Park Square dancing is one of the most popular activities for middle-aged people all around the country. Actually you'll find there are as many as four or five groups dancing to different music in and around this area. You can see the lively square dance performances. Square dancing The most interesting is to see the matchmaking corner where parents advertise for their children. Matchmarketing corner Brief introduction of their son or daughter Just a few steps away from the loud music and dancing you'll find people drawing caricatures, fortunetellers, snack shops, candy art, people playing cards, ear cleanings, etc. Ear cleaning Candy art 15:30 – 17:00 PMPlay Mahjong You can't miss Tea House and Mahjong game when you travel in Chengdu. We will go to a famous tea house, "Heming"(鹤鸣) Tea House, to enjoy a cup of Chinese tea while learning the etiquette and culture of tea in Chengdu. Heming Tea House Enjoy a cup of tea The guide will teach you how to play Chinese traditional table game --Mahjong in an easy way in English, then put you into a real test. Also he/she will tell you the history and culture hehind Mahjong and why it's so popular in China. Have a Mahjong class Mahjong tiles Price Include: Mahjong class. A cup of tea in tea house. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Gratuities. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. The People's Park has a long history and is where to go for an authentic taste of the Chengdu laid-back lifestyle. Although some people may shy away from crowded areas, one of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. In the park, you should not miss is to drink a cup of tea at Heming Teahouse and experience a Chengdu specialty, like Mahjong, ear cleaning, etc. Taking this 3-hour activity not only to learn some special events of Chengdu, but also to experience playing Mahjong and understand the tremendous impact that Mahjong causes on people and the society. The People's Park has a long history and is where to go for an authentic taste of the Chengdu laid-back lifestyle. Although some people may shy away from crowded areas, one of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. In the park, you should not miss is to drink a cup of tea at Heming Teahouse and experience a Chengdu specialty, like Mahjong, ear cleaning, etc. Taking this 3-hour activity not only to learn some special events of Chengdu, but also to experience playing Mahjong and understand the tremendous impact that Mahjong causes on people and the society. Tour Highlights Walking tour to see Chengdu's life with a local English-speaking guide in People's Park. Learn how to play Mahjong in a simple way from your guide and feel the fun of it. Sip a cup of Chinese covered-bowl tea in a famous teahouse. Have a chance to know tea etiquette, local history and culture of Chengdu. • Walking tour to see Chengdu's life with a local English-speaking guide in People's Park. • Learn how to play Mahjong in a simple way from your guide and feel the fun of it. • Sip a cup of Chinese covered-bowl tea in a famous teahouse. • Have a chance to know tea etiquette, local history and culture of Chengdu. Detailed Itinerary Close All Before Your Tour Day You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting location after your booking. Our guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the guide. 14:00 - 15:30 PMVisit People's Park We will meet at 14:00PM at People's Park Subway Station EXIT A. Firstly, our walking tour will start to visit the famous People's Park in Chengdu. One of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. From this tour, shoulder by shoulder with locals to see the unique Chengdu's lifestyle and culture. The gate of People's Park Square dancing is one of the most popular activities for middle-aged people all around the country. Actually you'll find there are as many as four or five groups dancing to different music in and around this area. You can see the lively square dance performances. Square dancing The most interesting is to see the matchmaking corner where parents advertise for their children. Matchmarketing corner Brief introduction of their son or daughter Just a few steps away from the loud music and dancing you'll find people drawing caricatures, fortunetellers, snack shops, candy art, people playing cards, ear cleanings, etc. Ear cleaning Candy art 15:30 – 17:00 PMPlay Mahjong You can't miss Tea House and Mahjong game when you travel in Chengdu. We will go to a famous tea house, "Heming"(鹤鸣) Tea House, to enjoy a cup of Chinese tea while learning the etiquette and culture of tea in Chengdu. Heming Tea House Enjoy a cup of tea The guide will teach you how to play Chinese traditional table game --Mahjong in an easy way in English, then put you into a real test. Also he/she will tell you the history and culture hehind Mahjong and why it's so popular in China. Have a Mahjong class Mahjong tiles Close All Before Your Tour Day You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting location after your booking. Our guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the guide. 14:00 - 15:30 PMVisit People's Park We will meet at 14:00PM at People's Park Subway Station EXIT A. Firstly, our walking tour will start to visit the famous People's Park in Chengdu. One of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. From this tour, shoulder by shoulder with locals to see the unique Chengdu's lifestyle and culture. The gate of People's Park Square dancing is one of the most popular activities for middle-aged people all around the country. Actually you'll find there are as many as four or five groups dancing to different music in and around this area. You can see the lively square dance performances. Square dancing The most interesting is to see the matchmaking corner where parents advertise for their children. Matchmarketing corner Brief introduction of their son or daughter Just a few steps away from the loud music and dancing you'll find people drawing caricatures, fortunetellers, snack shops, candy art, people playing cards, ear cleanings, etc. Ear cleaning Candy art 15:30 – 17:00 PMPlay Mahjong You can't miss Tea House and Mahjong game when you travel in Chengdu. We will go to a famous tea house, "Heming"(鹤鸣) Tea House, to enjoy a cup of Chinese tea while learning the etiquette and culture of tea in Chengdu. Heming Tea House Enjoy a cup of tea The guide will teach you how to play Chinese traditional table game --Mahjong in an easy way in English, then put you into a real test. Also he/she will tell you the history and culture hehind Mahjong and why it's so popular in China. Have a Mahjong class Mahjong tiles Before Your Tour Day You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting location after your booking. Our guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the guide. You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting location after your booking. Our guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the guide. You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting location after your booking. Our guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the guide. 14:00 - 15:30 PMVisit People's Park We will meet at 14:00PM at People's Park Subway Station EXIT A. Firstly, our walking tour will start to visit the famous People's Park in Chengdu. One of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. From this tour, shoulder by shoulder with locals to see the unique Chengdu's lifestyle and culture. The gate of People's Park Square dancing is one of the most popular activities for middle-aged people all around the country. Actually you'll find there are as many as four or five groups dancing to different music in and around this area. You can see the lively square dance performances. Square dancing The most interesting is to see the matchmaking corner where parents advertise for their children. Matchmarketing corner Brief introduction of their son or daughter Just a few steps away from the loud music and dancing you'll find people drawing caricatures, fortunetellers, snack shops, candy art, people playing cards, ear cleanings, etc. Ear cleaning Candy art 14:00 - 15:30 PMVisit People's Park We will meet at 14:00PM at People's Park Subway Station EXIT A. Firstly, our walking tour will start to visit the famous People's Park in Chengdu. One of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. From this tour, shoulder by shoulder with locals to see the unique Chengdu's lifestyle and culture. The gate of People's Park Square dancing is one of the most popular activities for middle-aged people all around the country. Actually you'll find there are as many as four or five groups dancing to different music in and around this area. You can see the lively square dance performances. Square dancing The most interesting is to see the matchmaking corner where parents advertise for their children. Matchmarketing corner Brief introduction of their son or daughter Just a few steps away from the loud music and dancing you'll find people drawing caricatures, fortunetellers, snack shops, candy art, people playing cards, ear cleanings, etc. Ear cleaning Candy art We will meet at 14:00PM at People's Park Subway Station EXIT A. Firstly, our walking tour will start to visit the famous People's Park in Chengdu. One of the charming aspects of People's Park is the wide variety of people and activities going on. From this tour, shoulder by shoulder with locals to see the unique Chengdu's lifestyle and culture. The gate of People's Park Square dancing is one of the most popular activities for middle-aged people all around the country. Actually you'll find there are as many as four or five groups dancing to different music in and around this area. You can see the lively square dance performances. The most interesting is to see the matchmaking corner where parents advertise for their children. Matchmarketing corner Brief introduction of their son or daughter Just a few steps away from the loud music and dancing you'll find people drawing caricatures, fortunetellers, snack shops, candy art, people playing cards, ear cleanings, etc. 15:30 – 17:00 PMPlay Mahjong You can't miss Tea House and Mahjong game when you travel in Chengdu. We will go to a famous tea house, "Heming"(鹤鸣) Tea House, to enjoy a cup of Chinese tea while learning the etiquette and culture of tea in Chengdu. Heming Tea House Enjoy a cup of tea The guide will teach you how to play Chinese traditional table game --Mahjong in an easy way in English, then put you into a real test. Also he/she will tell you the history and culture hehind Mahjong and why it's so popular in China. Have a Mahjong class Mahjong tiles 15:30 – 17:00 PMPlay Mahjong You can't miss Tea House and Mahjong game when you travel in Chengdu. We will go to a famous tea house, "Heming"(鹤鸣) Tea House, to enjoy a cup of Chinese tea while learning the etiquette and culture of tea in Chengdu. Heming Tea House Enjoy a cup of tea The guide will teach you how to play Chinese traditional table game --Mahjong in an easy way in English, then put you into a real test. Also he/she will tell you the history and culture hehind Mahjong and why it's so popular in China. Have a Mahjong class Mahjong tiles You can't miss Tea House and Mahjong game when you travel in Chengdu. We will go to a famous tea house, "Heming"(鹤鸣) Tea House, to enjoy a cup of Chinese tea while learning the etiquette and culture of tea in Chengdu. The guide will teach you how to play Chinese traditional table game --Mahjong in an easy way in English, then put you into a real test. Also he/she will tell you the history and culture hehind Mahjong and why it's so popular in China. Price Include: Mahjong class. A cup of tea in tea house. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Gratuities. Price Include: Mahjong class. A cup of tea in tea house. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Gratuities. Price Include: Mahjong class. A cup of tea in tea house. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Gratuities. • Mahjong class. • A cup of tea in tea house. • Friendly local English-speaking guide. • Hotel pick-up and drop-off. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 52 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 52 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 52 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20