ID: 1caa52121f3dbdb0
Title: Top 7 Places to Visit Near Chengdu
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chengdu/top-places-near-chengdu.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-05-07T00:00:00
================================================================================

My name is Molly, and I'm a tour guide based in Chengdu. I was also born and raised here. Often, I show tourists around our city as well as the natural landscapes and villages of Western Sichuan. Due to my experience, I often get asked: We want to see some natural landscapes and relax near Chengdu, where do you think we should go? So, I wrote this article to introduce my most recommended places to visit around Chengdu, where each location is accompanied by highlights and main itinerary arrangements. Molly Xie 3 Years as a Local Guide in Chengdu Hi, I'm Molly. When I first visited Chengdu in high school, I was captivated by the city's leisurely pace of life, the warmth of the locals, and the incredible variety of food - delicious cuisine is everywhere. I secretly decided that I wanted to live here in the future. After graduating from university, I moved to Chengdu to work and live. The longer I stay here, the more I love this city. Later, I was fortunate to become a tour guide, introducing visitors from around the world to our local culture, exploring the surrounding natural scenery, and immersing them in the culinary delights. I feel very happy whenever I see guests amazed and full of praise for the wonderful things here. 3 Years as a Local Guide in Chengdu Hi, I'm Molly. When I first visited Chengdu in high school, I was captivated by the city's leisurely pace of life, the warmth of the locals, and the incredible variety of food - delicious cuisine is everywhere. I secretly decided that I wanted to live here in the future. After graduating from university, I moved to Chengdu to work and live. The longer I stay here, the more I love this city. Later, I was fortunate to become a tour guide, introducing visitors from around the world to our local culture, exploring the surrounding natural scenery, and immersing them in the culinary delights. I feel very happy whenever I see guests amazed and full of praise for the wonderful things here. • The Four Girls Mountain • Mount Emei • Suji Ancient Town • Mugecuo • Tagong Grassland • Huanglongxi Ancient Town • Jiuzhaigou 1. The Four Girls Mountain Four Girls Mountain in autumn The Four Girls Mountain is about a 4-5 hour drive from Chengdu. It boasts a wide variety of landscapes to feast your eyes on, such as snow-capped mountains, alpine meadows, green lakes, Tibetan Buddhist white pagodas, traditional architecture, primitive forests, and winding rivers. Far from the hustle and bustle of the city, it sees relatively few tourists, especially during the off-peak season (such as spring and autumn). Here, you can enjoy a peaceful atmosphere, clear your mind, and relish in the tranquility. The weather there is typically pleasant, usually sunny. So far, we haven't encountered a rainy day there yet. The blue sky, fresh clear air, and the picturesque mountain lakes create stunning scenes. I still remember the first time I traveled there. A companion took a photo of me, and when I later shared it with my friends, they exclaimed, "Oh, this beautiful scenery looks like it was shot in Switzerland!" I smiled and said: "No, it was taken near Chengdu, but yes, the Four Girls Mountain is often praised as the Eastern Alps! That's why you got that feeling!" But when is the best time to visit? Well, the Four Girls Mountain is beautiful all year round, each season has its own characteristics. • The most recommended seasons to go are spring and early summer when beautiful wildflowers bloom, new grass covers the meadows, and melting water flows into the rivers and lakes. Jiuzhaigou in early summer • Autumn is also a great time, when the vegetation changes colors from the mountain foot to the mountain top. • It's better to avoid the heavy rainy season, especially July and August, to prevent landslides and traffic jams. To get here, traveling by car is more convenient and easy. You should plan for around three days, with two nights' stay. You can check out our 4-Day Mount Siguniang and Wolong Panda Research Center Tour for inspiration. Mount Emei is known for its beautiful scenery and deep Buddhist culture. Additionally, Mount Emei is rich in vegetation and has a high concentration of negative oxygen ions, so even at the summit of over three thousand meters, it's not easy to experience altitude sickness. Whether you want to purely appreciate the beauty of nature, escape the hustle and bustle of the city, are a devout Buddhist wishing to pray, or even want to witness the liveliness and dominance of wild monkeys, Mount Emei is your top choice. Since Mount Emei is located within Leshan, it is easy to reach. If you're departing from Chengdu to visit Mount Emei, you can plan for two days and pair it with a visit to the Leshan Giant Buddha for a richer experience. • On the first day in the morning, you can depart from Chengdu, drive to the Leshan Giant Buddha for sightseeing, then drive for an hour to stay at the foot of Mount Emei. • The next morning, take the scenic area bus and cable car to the highest point of Mount Emei, Jinding, to worship the Samantabhadra Buddha and other temples, and enjoy the sea of clouds. • Then you can return the same way in the afternoon. If you want to see the sunrise at Jinding, you can drive to the foot of Mount Emei after visiting the Leshan Giant Buddha on the first day, then take the scenic area bus to the top of Mount Emei to stay overnight. Early the next morning, you can watch the sunrise, visit Jinding, then descend the mountain and return to Chengdu. Check our our 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Emei Tour. With a history of approximately 1400 years, dating back to the Sui Dynasty, Suji Ancient Town has deep cultural heritage. With fewer crowds, it can be explored in about an hour and a half, making it a great place to trace the steps of time and enjoy Sichuan cuisine. A river runs through the middle of the town. • On the left, an entire street is filled with delicious foods such as "qiao jiao" beef, tofu pudding, rice candy, and "ka bing" that will keep you from stopping. • On the right, you'll find places to drink tea, where you can stroll along the river and bask in the sun. Suji Ancient Town is only a half-hour drive from the Leshan Giant Buddha. You can depart from Chengdu in the morning, visit the Giant Buddha and the ancient town, and return to Chengdu on the same day. Mugecuo is a four-hour drive from Chengdu and is part of a Tibetan settlement area. The surrounding region of Mugecuo retains a rich Tibetan folk culture. The scenic area boasts a variety of natural landscapes, including pristine forests, snow-capped mountains, and lakes. It is an excellent place to appreciate the scenery of the Western Sichuan Plateau. You can traverse the original forest along the canyon plank road, check in at the Redstone Beach for its unique landscape, and witness the splashing and crashing sounds of the streams along the way. Best time to visit: The late spring and early summer months (from April to June) and autumn (from September to October) are ideal. During these times, the climate is mild, vegetation is lush, and flowers are in full bloom, making it perfect for outdoor exploration and photography. In the scenic area, there are sightseeing cars that stop at each point, and the approximate visiting time is 3-4 hours. You can choose a 3-4 day tour, stay overnight in Kangding city, and combine your visit with Xinduqiao and Tagong Grassland. You can check out our 6-Day Sichuan Adventure Tour with Yala Snow Mountain for inspiration. Tagong Grassland is a famous grassland, approximately a two-hour drive from either Kangding City or Mugecuo. It features boundless verdant landscapes. Here, cattle and sheep roam in herds, and the rich Tibetan Buddhist culture is evident. The thousand-year-old Tagong Temple, the sound of prayers from the temple, clouds drifting in the sky, golden rays of the sun, reflecting on the houses of the village and the green grassland, all contribute to a peaceful and serene atmosphere. From here, you can also gaze at one of the four great sacred mountains of the Tibetan region - Yala Snow Mountain. You can depart from Kangding City in the morning, drive along National Highway 318, pass through the photographer's paradise of Xinduqiao, and then visit Tagong Grassland. Afterward, you can return to Kangding for accommodation, and return to Chengdu the next day. Experience our 9-Day Panorama Western Sichuan Tour, where you'll feast your eyes on stunning landscapes and immerse yourself in the rich cultural fusion of Tibetan and Han Chinese traditions. 6. Huanglongxi Ancient Town Huanglongxi Ancient Town Huanglongxi Ancient Town is a water town with a history of more than 1700 years. Not only does it have ancient streets, trees, temples, and docks, but it also boasts a rich folk culture and delicious food, making it an excellent place to relax and unwind. The ancient town is open 24 hours a day throughout the year. It's just over an hour's drive from Chengdu and doesn't require an entrance ticket. The ancient alleyways retain a large number of buildings from the Ming and Qing Dynasties. Strolling along the quaint streets, you can admire various traditional buildings and ancient gatehouses. Huanglongxi Ancient Town is much larger than the average ancient town. It mainly consists of a main street extending in a straight line, with a small stream running through the middle, and ancient lanes extending on both sides. There are shops for browsing and eating, and even small accessory shops that girls would love. Generally, it takes about two hours to explore the town. Huanglongxi is a great destination for a leisurely day trip from Chengdu. You can choose to drink tea or play mahjong in the old teahouses in the town, experiencing the leisurely life of Chengdu. Taste the internet-famous delicacy: Huanglongxi's "one noodle", visit temples, pray to Buddha, and so on. The Autumn Colors of Jiuzhaigou "Return from Huangshan Mountain and you'll never want to see another mountain; return from Jiuzhaigou and you'll never want to see other waters." This saying illustrates the soul of Jiuzhaigou - its water. It is also known as a "fairyland". Zhai (寨) means village in Chinese. Jiuzhaigou is named after the nine Tibetan villages it encompasses. Along with the lakes, waterfalls, and forests in the valley, these villages together create a breathtakingly beautiful landscape. Visiting the attractions in Jiuzhaigou requires a whole day, not including the travel time to and from Chengdu. You can reach Jiuzhaigou from Chengdu by car or high-speed train. • The high-speed train is faster, but after arriving at the terminal station Zhenjiangguan, it still takes another two hours by car to reach the Jiuzhaigou scenic area. • The car takes 6-7 hours to arrive. You can stop at Songpan Ancient Town and other places with Tibetan characteristics on the way. Recommended itinerary: 3 days and 2 nights, departing from Chengdu by high-speed train Day 1: Chengdu - Jiuzhaigou Depart from Chengdu High Speed Rail Station and take the high-speed train to Zhenjiangguan Station (about 1.5 hours). Upon arrival, take another 2 hours by car to Jiuzhaigou. In the evening, you can try local delicacies near the entrance of the valley, such as Tibetan hot pot, yak meat, and barley wine, etc. Stay overnight in a hotel near the entrance of the valley. Day 2: One-day tour of Jiuzhaigou Morning: Get up early and head to the Jiuzhaigou scenic area to visit Shuzheng Valley, including Shuzheng Waterfall, Shuzheng Lakes, etc. Noon: Have lunch in the scenic area Afternoon: Continue to visit Rize Valley (Five Flower Lake, Pearl Shoals) and Zechawa Valley (Long Lake, Five Color Pond). Evening: taste local cuisine at a Tibetan restaurant near the hotel. Day 3: Jiuzhaigou - Chengdu Morning: After breakfast at the hotel, depart for the high-speed rail station and take the high-speed train back to Chengdu. There are only two downsides to Jiuzhaigou: • One is that there are too many people (however, because the scenic area is so large and well managed, you only feel it when lining up to enter the park and at the smallest Five Color Pond). • The other is that with the opening of the high-speed train, there are many tourists, so you need to buy high-speed train tickets and entrance tickets in advance, otherwise, it's hard to get them at the last minute. (If the high-speed train tickets are sold out, consider taking a private car or a flight from Chengdu to Jiuzhaigou.) If time permits, you can also drive and add a day. • On the first day, visit Dujiangyan or Qingcheng Mountain along the way, stay overnight in Dujiangyan. • Continue to Jiuzhaigou on the second day, add another day after visiting Jiuzhaigou to visit the Huanglong Scenic Area, stay overnight in Maoxian on the way back, and return to Chengdu the next day. This 5-Day Jiuzhaigou Journey from and back to Chengdu will allow you to enjoy the most colorful Spring of both Jiuzhaigou and Huanglong, also provide a chance to meet the pandas in person. Discover Chengdu with us - Your Adventure Awaits Join us at China Highlights as we uncover the treasures of Chengdu and its surrounding areas. Experience the vibrant culture, savor the renowned cuisine, and immerse yourself in the breathtaking landscapes. Don't miss out on this unforgettable journey.