ID: 3726a0ff3819198a
Title: One-day Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tour From Lijiang
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/yunnan/one-day-tiger-leaping-gorge-hiking-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Tiger Leaping Gorge is one of the deepest gorges on the planet, and it has the best hiking trail in the Lijiang area. Foreign backpackers started hiking in the area in the 1980s. Though it is one of China's popular trails, it is not crowded. Few Chinese tourists hike it, though you'll see the native people using the route and grazing their animals. The path isn't really dangerous either, except when it rains, when there are gusty winds, or where there are rockslides. Challenge yourself to this hiking tour with us, our professional hiking guide ensure your safety and provide a wonderful hiking experience. You will see spectacular scenery along the whole hiking road. It is strenuous if you attempt to do the whole thing too quickly, but backpackers generally say that it is worth it. Tour Highlights Challenge yourself to hike in the wild mountains and get a magnificent view of the Gorge Behold the wondrous natural beauty of the deepest gorges in the world. Enjoy a peaceful time in the hiking route which is less crowded. A unique gorge hiking experience escorted by a professional expert guide. Detailed Itinerary Close All 7:30 – 9:00 AMMeet The Guide and Drive to The Tiger Leaping Gorge Your tour guide will pick you up at your hotel and ride about 1.5 hour by a private car to the Tiger Leaping Gorge Scenic Area. Hiking map Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and meeting time by email, the guide will call your hotel to contact you to double confirm the departure time at the night before the tour date. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and bring some food or cash with you cause lunch fee is excluded. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change. 9:30 – 11:30 AMHike from 14KM to Halfway Guesthouse The hiking route is Tea House Guesthouse – Half-way Guesthouse - Tina's Guesthouse. Upon arrival at Qiaotou town, we will see the gate of Tiger Leaping Gorge. Then, we start the hiking tour from Tea House Guesthouse, trek along the road to Bendiwan Village and have a rest in Half-way Guesthouse where you will have a fantastic view of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain from the balcony of the guesthouse. At the beginning When the hike begins, we will walk a very smooth road. Looking down from the mountain, you can see the first bay of the Yangtze River and the distant mountains. The scenery is quite spectacular. Steep slopes on the trail Yangtze River Distant mountains Good to Know: We will provide 2 bottles of water per person for free, and you are not suggested to bring too many things cause there are some shops along the trail. This is a great sightseeing stop with many photo opportunities. Bring your camera, wear skidproof shoes, and be prepared to be astonished. 11:30 – 12:30 PMTake a Break and Have Lunch When we arrive at the Halfway Guesthouse, have a rest and enjoy your lunch here with a wonderful mountain view. The guesthouse keeper has great English-speaking skill, you may have a chance to hear about some interesting hiking stories from him. Halfway Guesthouse Enjoy lunch Good to Know: The lunch fee is not included, you can eat the food you bring or order a local meal at the halfway guesthouse. 12:30 – 15:00 PMContinue Hiking to Tina's Guesthouse Continue our hiking from halfway guesthouse to Tina's guesthouse. That is the most interesting and thrilling part. Along the trail, we will go at the edge of the cliff or walk through the simple boardwalk on the rapids. The mountain road is not difficult to walk and we may even walk way for mules and goats, but it's particularly risky. Walkby cliffs Walkby cliffs We will also pass two waterfalls, and we need to cross both of them. At this time, the advantages of waterproof shoes are reflected. You feel very cool when hike in summer. Beautiful waterfall Billowy torrent Walk on the suspension bridge 15:00 PM – 17:00 PMReturn to Lijiang Arrive at Tina's Guesthouse, our tour will ends. Then we will drive back to your Lijiang hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Tiger Leaping Gorge Price Include: Entrance tickets mentioned in the itinerary Transportation between your hotel and scenic spot. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What Makes Us Different We are experienced and professional! We have been touring the Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking trails for many years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. Our hiking tour guides are well-trained to ensure your safety on the way. Our guide and customers No Shopping! No Hidden Costs! Great Value for Money! We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. Great experience Tiger Leaping Gorge is one of the deepest gorges on the planet, and it has the best hiking trail in the Lijiang area. Foreign backpackers started hiking in the area in the 1980s. Though it is one of China's popular trails, it is not crowded. Few Chinese tourists hike it, though you'll see the native people using the route and grazing their animals. The path isn't really dangerous either, except when it rains, when there are gusty winds, or where there are rockslides. Challenge yourself to this hiking tour with us, our professional hiking guide ensure your safety and provide a wonderful hiking experience. You will see spectacular scenery along the whole hiking road. It is strenuous if you attempt to do the whole thing too quickly, but backpackers generally say that it is worth it. Tiger Leaping Gorge is one of the deepest gorges on the planet, and it has the best hiking trail in the Lijiang area. Foreign backpackers started hiking in the area in the 1980s. Though it is one of China's popular trails, it is not crowded. Few Chinese tourists hike it, though you'll see the native people using the route and grazing their animals. The path isn't really dangerous either, except when it rains, when there are gusty winds, or where there are rockslides. Challenge yourself to this hiking tour with us, our professional hiking guide ensure your safety and provide a wonderful hiking experience. You will see spectacular scenery along the whole hiking road. It is strenuous if you attempt to do the whole thing too quickly, but backpackers generally say that it is worth it. Tour Highlights Challenge yourself to hike in the wild mountains and get a magnificent view of the Gorge Behold the wondrous natural beauty of the deepest gorges in the world. Enjoy a peaceful time in the hiking route which is less crowded. A unique gorge hiking experience escorted by a professional expert guide. • Challenge yourself to hike in the wild mountains and get a magnificent view of the Gorge • Behold the wondrous natural beauty of the deepest gorges in the world. • Enjoy a peaceful time in the hiking route which is less crowded. • A unique gorge hiking experience escorted by a professional expert guide. Detailed Itinerary Close All 7:30 – 9:00 AMMeet The Guide and Drive to The Tiger Leaping Gorge Your tour guide will pick you up at your hotel and ride about 1.5 hour by a private car to the Tiger Leaping Gorge Scenic Area. Hiking map Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and meeting time by email, the guide will call your hotel to contact you to double confirm the departure time at the night before the tour date. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and bring some food or cash with you cause lunch fee is excluded. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change. 9:30 – 11:30 AMHike from 14KM to Halfway Guesthouse The hiking route is Tea House Guesthouse – Half-way Guesthouse - Tina's Guesthouse. Upon arrival at Qiaotou town, we will see the gate of Tiger Leaping Gorge. Then, we start the hiking tour from Tea House Guesthouse, trek along the road to Bendiwan Village and have a rest in Half-way Guesthouse where you will have a fantastic view of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain from the balcony of the guesthouse. At the beginning When the hike begins, we will walk a very smooth road. Looking down from the mountain, you can see the first bay of the Yangtze River and the distant mountains. The scenery is quite spectacular. Steep slopes on the trail Yangtze River Distant mountains Good to Know: We will provide 2 bottles of water per person for free, and you are not suggested to bring too many things cause there are some shops along the trail. This is a great sightseeing stop with many photo opportunities. Bring your camera, wear skidproof shoes, and be prepared to be astonished. 11:30 – 12:30 PMTake a Break and Have Lunch When we arrive at the Halfway Guesthouse, have a rest and enjoy your lunch here with a wonderful mountain view. The guesthouse keeper has great English-speaking skill, you may have a chance to hear about some interesting hiking stories from him. Halfway Guesthouse Enjoy lunch Good to Know: The lunch fee is not included, you can eat the food you bring or order a local meal at the halfway guesthouse. 12:30 – 15:00 PMContinue Hiking to Tina's Guesthouse Continue our hiking from halfway guesthouse to Tina's guesthouse. That is the most interesting and thrilling part. Along the trail, we will go at the edge of the cliff or walk through the simple boardwalk on the rapids. The mountain road is not difficult to walk and we may even walk way for mules and goats, but it's particularly risky. Walkby cliffs Walkby cliffs We will also pass two waterfalls, and we need to cross both of them. At this time, the advantages of waterproof shoes are reflected. You feel very cool when hike in summer. Beautiful waterfall Billowy torrent Walk on the suspension bridge 15:00 PM – 17:00 PMReturn to Lijiang Arrive at Tina's Guesthouse, our tour will ends. Then we will drive back to your Lijiang hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Tiger Leaping Gorge Close All 7:30 – 9:00 AMMeet The Guide and Drive to The Tiger Leaping Gorge Your tour guide will pick you up at your hotel and ride about 1.5 hour by a private car to the Tiger Leaping Gorge Scenic Area. Hiking map Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and meeting time by email, the guide will call your hotel to contact you to double confirm the departure time at the night before the tour date. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and bring some food or cash with you cause lunch fee is excluded. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change. 9:30 – 11:30 AMHike from 14KM to Halfway Guesthouse The hiking route is Tea House Guesthouse – Half-way Guesthouse - Tina's Guesthouse. Upon arrival at Qiaotou town, we will see the gate of Tiger Leaping Gorge. Then, we start the hiking tour from Tea House Guesthouse, trek along the road to Bendiwan Village and have a rest in Half-way Guesthouse where you will have a fantastic view of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain from the balcony of the guesthouse. At the beginning When the hike begins, we will walk a very smooth road. Looking down from the mountain, you can see the first bay of the Yangtze River and the distant mountains. The scenery is quite spectacular. Steep slopes on the trail Yangtze River Distant mountains Good to Know: We will provide 2 bottles of water per person for free, and you are not suggested to bring too many things cause there are some shops along the trail. This is a great sightseeing stop with many photo opportunities. Bring your camera, wear skidproof shoes, and be prepared to be astonished. 11:30 – 12:30 PMTake a Break and Have Lunch When we arrive at the Halfway Guesthouse, have a rest and enjoy your lunch here with a wonderful mountain view. The guesthouse keeper has great English-speaking skill, you may have a chance to hear about some interesting hiking stories from him. Halfway Guesthouse Enjoy lunch Good to Know: The lunch fee is not included, you can eat the food you bring or order a local meal at the halfway guesthouse. 12:30 – 15:00 PMContinue Hiking to Tina's Guesthouse Continue our hiking from halfway guesthouse to Tina's guesthouse. That is the most interesting and thrilling part. Along the trail, we will go at the edge of the cliff or walk through the simple boardwalk on the rapids. The mountain road is not difficult to walk and we may even walk way for mules and goats, but it's particularly risky. Walkby cliffs Walkby cliffs We will also pass two waterfalls, and we need to cross both of them. At this time, the advantages of waterproof shoes are reflected. You feel very cool when hike in summer. Beautiful waterfall Billowy torrent Walk on the suspension bridge 15:00 PM – 17:00 PMReturn to Lijiang Arrive at Tina's Guesthouse, our tour will ends. Then we will drive back to your Lijiang hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Tiger Leaping Gorge 7:30 – 9:00 AMMeet The Guide and Drive to The Tiger Leaping Gorge Your tour guide will pick you up at your hotel and ride about 1.5 hour by a private car to the Tiger Leaping Gorge Scenic Area. Hiking map Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and meeting time by email, the guide will call your hotel to contact you to double confirm the departure time at the night before the tour date. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and bring some food or cash with you cause lunch fee is excluded. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change. 7:30 – 9:00 AMMeet The Guide and Drive to The Tiger Leaping Gorge Your tour guide will pick you up at your hotel and ride about 1.5 hour by a private car to the Tiger Leaping Gorge Scenic Area. Hiking map Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and meeting time by email, the guide will call your hotel to contact you to double confirm the departure time at the night before the tour date. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and bring some food or cash with you cause lunch fee is excluded. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change. Your tour guide will pick you up at your hotel and ride about 1.5 hour by a private car to the Tiger Leaping Gorge Scenic Area. • The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and meeting time by email, the guide will call your hotel to contact you to double confirm the departure time at the night before the tour date. • It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. • Be prepared for a hiking day and bring some food or cash with you cause lunch fee is excluded. • Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change. 9:30 – 11:30 AMHike from 14KM to Halfway Guesthouse The hiking route is Tea House Guesthouse – Half-way Guesthouse - Tina's Guesthouse. Upon arrival at Qiaotou town, we will see the gate of Tiger Leaping Gorge. Then, we start the hiking tour from Tea House Guesthouse, trek along the road to Bendiwan Village and have a rest in Half-way Guesthouse where you will have a fantastic view of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain from the balcony of the guesthouse. At the beginning When the hike begins, we will walk a very smooth road. Looking down from the mountain, you can see the first bay of the Yangtze River and the distant mountains. The scenery is quite spectacular. Steep slopes on the trail Yangtze River Distant mountains Good to Know: We will provide 2 bottles of water per person for free, and you are not suggested to bring too many things cause there are some shops along the trail. This is a great sightseeing stop with many photo opportunities. Bring your camera, wear skidproof shoes, and be prepared to be astonished. 9:30 – 11:30 AMHike from 14KM to Halfway Guesthouse The hiking route is Tea House Guesthouse – Half-way Guesthouse - Tina's Guesthouse. Upon arrival at Qiaotou town, we will see the gate of Tiger Leaping Gorge. Then, we start the hiking tour from Tea House Guesthouse, trek along the road to Bendiwan Village and have a rest in Half-way Guesthouse where you will have a fantastic view of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain from the balcony of the guesthouse. At the beginning When the hike begins, we will walk a very smooth road. Looking down from the mountain, you can see the first bay of the Yangtze River and the distant mountains. The scenery is quite spectacular. Steep slopes on the trail Yangtze River Distant mountains Good to Know: We will provide 2 bottles of water per person for free, and you are not suggested to bring too many things cause there are some shops along the trail. This is a great sightseeing stop with many photo opportunities. Bring your camera, wear skidproof shoes, and be prepared to be astonished. The hiking route is Tea House Guesthouse – Half-way Guesthouse - Tina's Guesthouse. Upon arrival at Qiaotou town, we will see the gate of Tiger Leaping Gorge. Then, we start the hiking tour from Tea House Guesthouse, trek along the road to Bendiwan Village and have a rest in Half-way Guesthouse where you will have a fantastic view of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain from the balcony of the guesthouse. When the hike begins, we will walk a very smooth road. Looking down from the mountain, you can see the first bay of the Yangtze River and the distant mountains. The scenery is quite spectacular. Steep slopes on the trail • We will provide 2 bottles of water per person for free, and you are not suggested to bring too many things cause there are some shops along the trail. • This is a great sightseeing stop with many photo opportunities. Bring your camera, wear skidproof shoes, and be prepared to be astonished. 11:30 – 12:30 PMTake a Break and Have Lunch When we arrive at the Halfway Guesthouse, have a rest and enjoy your lunch here with a wonderful mountain view. The guesthouse keeper has great English-speaking skill, you may have a chance to hear about some interesting hiking stories from him. Halfway Guesthouse Enjoy lunch Good to Know: The lunch fee is not included, you can eat the food you bring or order a local meal at the halfway guesthouse. 11:30 – 12:30 PMTake a Break and Have Lunch When we arrive at the Halfway Guesthouse, have a rest and enjoy your lunch here with a wonderful mountain view. The guesthouse keeper has great English-speaking skill, you may have a chance to hear about some interesting hiking stories from him. Halfway Guesthouse Enjoy lunch Good to Know: The lunch fee is not included, you can eat the food you bring or order a local meal at the halfway guesthouse. When we arrive at the Halfway Guesthouse, have a rest and enjoy your lunch here with a wonderful mountain view. The guesthouse keeper has great English-speaking skill, you may have a chance to hear about some interesting hiking stories from him. • The lunch fee is not included, you can eat the food you bring or order a local meal at the halfway guesthouse. 12:30 – 15:00 PMContinue Hiking to Tina's Guesthouse Continue our hiking from halfway guesthouse to Tina's guesthouse. That is the most interesting and thrilling part. Along the trail, we will go at the edge of the cliff or walk through the simple boardwalk on the rapids. The mountain road is not difficult to walk and we may even walk way for mules and goats, but it's particularly risky. Walkby cliffs Walkby cliffs We will also pass two waterfalls, and we need to cross both of them. At this time, the advantages of waterproof shoes are reflected. You feel very cool when hike in summer. Beautiful waterfall Billowy torrent Walk on the suspension bridge 12:30 – 15:00 PMContinue Hiking to Tina's Guesthouse Continue our hiking from halfway guesthouse to Tina's guesthouse. That is the most interesting and thrilling part. Along the trail, we will go at the edge of the cliff or walk through the simple boardwalk on the rapids. The mountain road is not difficult to walk and we may even walk way for mules and goats, but it's particularly risky. Walkby cliffs Walkby cliffs We will also pass two waterfalls, and we need to cross both of them. At this time, the advantages of waterproof shoes are reflected. You feel very cool when hike in summer. Beautiful waterfall Billowy torrent Walk on the suspension bridge Continue our hiking from halfway guesthouse to Tina's guesthouse. That is the most interesting and thrilling part. Along the trail, we will go at the edge of the cliff or walk through the simple boardwalk on the rapids. The mountain road is not difficult to walk and we may even walk way for mules and goats, but it's particularly risky. We will also pass two waterfalls, and we need to cross both of them. At this time, the advantages of waterproof shoes are reflected. You feel very cool when hike in summer. Walk on the suspension bridge 15:00 PM – 17:00 PMReturn to Lijiang Arrive at Tina's Guesthouse, our tour will ends. Then we will drive back to your Lijiang hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Tiger Leaping Gorge 15:00 PM – 17:00 PMReturn to Lijiang Arrive at Tina's Guesthouse, our tour will ends. Then we will drive back to your Lijiang hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Tiger Leaping Gorge Arrive at Tina's Guesthouse, our tour will ends. Then we will drive back to your Lijiang hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Price Include: Entrance tickets mentioned in the itinerary Transportation between your hotel and scenic spot. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Entrance tickets mentioned in the itinerary Transportation between your hotel and scenic spot. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Entrance tickets mentioned in the itinerary Transportation between your hotel and scenic spot. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Entrance tickets mentioned in the itinerary • Transportation between your hotel and scenic spot. • English-speaking expert local guide. • Bottled water. • Lunch. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What Makes Us Different We are experienced and professional! We have been touring the Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking trails for many years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. Our hiking tour guides are well-trained to ensure your safety on the way. Our guide and customers No Shopping! No Hidden Costs! Great Value for Money! We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. Great experience What Makes Us Different We are experienced and professional! We have been touring the Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking trails for many years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. Our hiking tour guides are well-trained to ensure your safety on the way. Our guide and customers We are experienced and professional! We have been touring the Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking trails for many years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. Our hiking tour guides are well-trained to ensure your safety on the way. Our guide and customers • We have been touring the Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking trails for many years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. • Our hiking tour guides are well-trained to ensure your safety on the way. Our guide and customers No Shopping! No Hidden Costs! Great Value for Money! We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. Great experience No Shopping! No Hidden Costs! Great Value for Money! We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. Great experience • We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. • We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 162 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 162 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 162 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20