ID: 37472a79424fcd5c
Title: Yichang Attractions, Must-See Scenic Spots in Yichuang
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yichang/attraction/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Yichang attractions are dominated by the Three Gorges, with 8 of the 12 attractions listed on the Yangtze River. From Yichang you could take a Yangtze cruise upriver towards Chongqing through the gorges or downstream to Wuhan and Shanghai. The giant dams: the Three Gorges Dam and Gezhou Dam, along with the towering gorges: Xiling Gorge, Wu Gorge, and Qutang Gorge, make up a spectacular array of sights. There is also a sturgeon museum, historic residences, temples, and ancient architecture in and around the city. Three Gorges Dam The Three Gorges Dam is to date the largest dam in the world - an outstanding mega-structure to visit in China. It serves three main purposes: flood control, hydroelectric power production, and f.. Gezhou Dam Gezhou Dam, which lies within the municipal boundaries of the city of Yichang, Hubei Province, is situated in the Xiling Gorge. When completed in 1980, Gezhou Dam was China's largest hydroelectric dam, cont.. Qu Yuan Ancestral Hall Qu Yuan Ancestral Hall, also called Qingliegong Ancestral Hall, was built in Tang Yuanhe 15th year and repeatedly repaired because of its destruction in Song, Yuan, Ming and Qing Dynasties. Later it was chang.. Three Gorges Dam The Three Gorges Dam is to date the largest dam in the world - an outstanding mega-structure to visit in China. It serves three main purposes: flood control, hydroelectric power production, and f.. Three Gorges Dam The Three Gorges Dam is to date the largest dam in the world - an outstanding mega-structure to visit in China. It serves three main purposes: flood control, hydroelectric power production, and f.. The Three Gorges Dam is to date the largest dam in the world - an outstanding mega-structure to visit in China. It serves three main purposes: flood control, hydroelectric power production, and f.. Gezhou Dam Gezhou Dam, which lies within the municipal boundaries of the city of Yichang, Hubei Province, is situated in the Xiling Gorge. When completed in 1980, Gezhou Dam was China's largest hydroelectric dam, cont.. Gezhou Dam Gezhou Dam, which lies within the municipal boundaries of the city of Yichang, Hubei Province, is situated in the Xiling Gorge. When completed in 1980, Gezhou Dam was China's largest hydroelectric dam, cont.. Gezhou Dam, which lies within the municipal boundaries of the city of Yichang, Hubei Province, is situated in the Xiling Gorge. When completed in 1980, Gezhou Dam was China's largest hydroelectric dam, cont.. Qu Yuan Ancestral Hall Qu Yuan Ancestral Hall, also called Qingliegong Ancestral Hall, was built in Tang Yuanhe 15th year and repeatedly repaired because of its destruction in Song, Yuan, Ming and Qing Dynasties. Later it was chang.. Qu Yuan Ancestral Hall Qu Yuan Ancestral Hall, also called Qingliegong Ancestral Hall, was built in Tang Yuanhe 15th year and repeatedly repaired because of its destruction in Song, Yuan, Ming and Qing Dynasties. Later it was chang.. Qu Yuan Ancestral Hall, also called Qingliegong Ancestral Hall, was built in Tang Yuanhe 15th year and repeatedly repaired because of its destruction in Song, Yuan, Ming and Qing Dynasties. Later it was chang.. Shennong Stream Shennong Stream, also called Yandu River, is the first tributary that feeds the Yangtze River after it comes out of the Wu Gorge and flows into Xiang Stream (Wang Zhaojun's birthplace - Zigui County).. Xiling Gorge Xiling Gorge is the longest of the Three Gorges (at 66 kilometers, compared to Wu Gorge at 44 kilometers and Qutang Gorge at 8 kilometer). Before the Three Gorges Dam Project, Xiling Gorge was renowned for it.. Shennong Stream Shennong Stream, also called Yandu River, is the first tributary that feeds the Yangtze River after it comes out of the Wu Gorge and flows into Xiang Stream (Wang Zhaojun's birthplace - Zigui County).. Shennong Stream Shennong Stream, also called Yandu River, is the first tributary that feeds the Yangtze River after it comes out of the Wu Gorge and flows into Xiang Stream (Wang Zhaojun's birthplace - Zigui County).. Shennong Stream, also called Yandu River, is the first tributary that feeds the Yangtze River after it comes out of the Wu Gorge and flows into Xiang Stream (Wang Zhaojun's birthplace - Zigui County).. Xiling Gorge Xiling Gorge is the longest of the Three Gorges (at 66 kilometers, compared to Wu Gorge at 44 kilometers and Qutang Gorge at 8 kilometer). Before the Three Gorges Dam Project, Xiling Gorge was renowned for it.. Xiling Gorge Xiling Gorge is the longest of the Three Gorges (at 66 kilometers, compared to Wu Gorge at 44 kilometers and Qutang Gorge at 8 kilometer). Before the Three Gorges Dam Project, Xiling Gorge was renowned for it.. Xiling Gorge is the longest of the Three Gorges (at 66 kilometers, compared to Wu Gorge at 44 kilometers and Qutang Gorge at 8 kilometer). Before the Three Gorges Dam Project, Xiling Gorge was renowned for it.. Huangling Temple Huangling Temple sits on the south bank of the Yangtze River within the Xiling Gorge. It is seven kilometers away from the Three Gorge Dam site, and is one of the oldest ancient buildings in the Three Go.. Chinese Sturgeon Museum The Chinese Sturgeon. The Chinese Sturgeon Museum, located on an islet in the Huangbo River in the Yiling District of the city of Yichang, is part of the Chinese Sturgeon Research Center, an institution that .. Former Residence of Wang Zhaojun Baoping, near the city of Yichang, Hubei Province, is a charming little village that has been preserved as much as possible in its original state in order to honor the memory of a woman who was born here and .. Huangling Temple Huangling Temple sits on the south bank of the Yangtze River within the Xiling Gorge. It is seven kilometers away from the Three Gorge Dam site, and is one of the oldest ancient buildings in the Three Go.. Huangling Temple Huangling Temple sits on the south bank of the Yangtze River within the Xiling Gorge. It is seven kilometers away from the Three Gorge Dam site, and is one of the oldest ancient buildings in the Three Go.. Huangling Temple sits on the south bank of the Yangtze River within the Xiling Gorge. It is seven kilometers away from the Three Gorge Dam site, and is one of the oldest ancient buildings in the Three Go.. Chinese Sturgeon Museum The Chinese Sturgeon. The Chinese Sturgeon Museum, located on an islet in the Huangbo River in the Yiling District of the city of Yichang, is part of the Chinese Sturgeon Research Center, an institution that .. Chinese Sturgeon Museum The Chinese Sturgeon. The Chinese Sturgeon Museum, located on an islet in the Huangbo River in the Yiling District of the city of Yichang, is part of the Chinese Sturgeon Research Center, an institution that .. The Chinese Sturgeon. The Chinese Sturgeon Museum, located on an islet in the Huangbo River in the Yiling District of the city of Yichang, is part of the Chinese Sturgeon Research Center, an institution that .. Former Residence of Wang Zhaojun Baoping, near the city of Yichang, Hubei Province, is a charming little village that has been preserved as much as possible in its original state in order to honor the memory of a woman who was born here and .. Former Residence of Wang Zhaojun Baoping, near the city of Yichang, Hubei Province, is a charming little village that has been preserved as much as possible in its original state in order to honor the memory of a woman who was born here and .. Baoping, near the city of Yichang, Hubei Province, is a charming little village that has been preserved as much as possible in its original state in order to honor the memory of a woman who was born here and .. Wu Gorge Wu Gorge is the second of the Three Gorges, through which the Yangtze River flows. It was also called Ba Gorge in ancient times. It is the most graceful and charming of the Three Gorges, known for its fo.. The Lesser Three Gorges Daning River is a large tributary of the Yangtze River, joining the Yangtze River at the western end of Wu Gorge. The Lesser Three Gorges, stretching 25 kilometers (16 miles) in the lower reaches of Dani.. Qutang Gorge Qutang Gorge is the spectacular first of the Three Gorges on the Yangtze River. It is the shortest, but loftiest of the Three Gorges, in comparison to the gracefulness of Wu Gorge and the treacherousness.. Wu Gorge Wu Gorge is the second of the Three Gorges, through which the Yangtze River flows. It was also called Ba Gorge in ancient times. It is the most graceful and charming of the Three Gorges, known for its fo.. Wu Gorge Wu Gorge is the second of the Three Gorges, through which the Yangtze River flows. It was also called Ba Gorge in ancient times. It is the most graceful and charming of the Three Gorges, known for its fo.. Wu Gorge is the second of the Three Gorges, through which the Yangtze River flows. It was also called Ba Gorge in ancient times. It is the most graceful and charming of the Three Gorges, known for its fo.. The Lesser Three Gorges Daning River is a large tributary of the Yangtze River, joining the Yangtze River at the western end of Wu Gorge. The Lesser Three Gorges, stretching 25 kilometers (16 miles) in the lower reaches of Dani.. The Lesser Three Gorges Daning River is a large tributary of the Yangtze River, joining the Yangtze River at the western end of Wu Gorge. The Lesser Three Gorges, stretching 25 kilometers (16 miles) in the lower reaches of Dani.. Daning River is a large tributary of the Yangtze River, joining the Yangtze River at the western end of Wu Gorge. The Lesser Three Gorges, stretching 25 kilometers (16 miles) in the lower reaches of Dani.. Qutang Gorge Qutang Gorge is the spectacular first of the Three Gorges on the Yangtze River. It is the shortest, but loftiest of the Three Gorges, in comparison to the gracefulness of Wu Gorge and the treacherousness.. Qutang Gorge Qutang Gorge is the spectacular first of the Three Gorges on the Yangtze River. It is the shortest, but loftiest of the Three Gorges, in comparison to the gracefulness of Wu Gorge and the treacherousness.. Qutang Gorge is the spectacular first of the Three Gorges on the Yangtze River. It is the shortest, but loftiest of the Three Gorges, in comparison to the gracefulness of Wu Gorge and the treacherousness..