ID: 27dc45af916c4556
Title: Sun Moon Lake in Taiwan: How to Plan a Fun Trip
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/taiwan/attraction/sun-moon-lake.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Sun Moon Lake, a tranquil lake surrounded by beautiful mountains, is one of Taiwan's most popular attractions. It is home to one of CNN's Top 10 Most Beautiful Bike Trails in the World. Sun Moon Lake is the largest freshwater lake in Taiwan. Divided by Lalu Island, the eastern half of the lake is roughly in the shape of a rhombus, like the sun. The western half of the lake is in the shape of an elongated arc, like a crescent moon. These two features have given rise to the name — Sun Moon Lake. • Chinese name: 日月潭 • Open: all day • Size: The lake covers an area of 827 hectares (8.27 square kilometers) along with Huanhu Road, which is about 33 kilometers (21 miles). It is surrounded by mountains on all sides. • Ticket: free • Location: Zhongshan Road, Yuchi Township (about an hour from Taichung, 3 hours from Taipei) • Suggested times: early spring (February–March), late autumn (October–November) • 1 and 2 Nights Itinerary • Day Trip to Sun Moon Lake • The Best Times to Visit • Transportation • Can I Swim in Sun Moon Lake? • What to Do Around Sun Moon Lake Should I Stay for 1 or 2 Nights at Sun Moon Lake? If you have enough time, 2 nights at Sun Moon Lake are perfect. However, if your time is limited, staying for 1 night or only spending 1 day there is workable. The most recommended itinerary is as follows: Day 1: Arrive at Sun Moon Lake, spend the day exploring the Sun Lake, and stay overnight at Shuishe Pier. Shuishe Pier is the transportation center of Sun Moon Lake and it's also the main accommodation and parking area. Staying there would make it easier for you to explore Sun Moon Lake. Shuishe Pier – Xuanguang Temple – Yidashao Pier – Wenwu Temple • After arriving at Sun Moon Lake from Taichung or Taipei on the first day, take a boat or the lakeside bus from Shuishe Pier to Xuanguang Temple and try the flavorful Ama tea leaf eggs. • After that, the boat would take you to Yidashao Pier and Yidashao Old Street, where you could taste the delicious local food and experience the Shao tribe culture. • Finally, take a bus or drive to Wenwu Temple to see Sun Moon Lake and the temple at sunset. From Wenwu Temple, there is a lakeside bus that would take you back to Shuishe Pier. There is a small night market with local specialties in the neighborhood, Yuchi Night Market, which is only open on Tuesday nights. The boats dock at Shuishe Pier, Yidashao Pier, and Xuanguang Pier. Each boat would sail in an anti-clockwise direction (Shuishe Pier – Xuanguang Temple – Yidashao Pier – Shuishe Pier). Sailing between each pier takes about 10–15 minutes and the boat would be docked at the pier for about half an hour. If you miss the boat you arrived on, don't worry, just wait 10–15 minutes for the next boat to arrive. Take the lakeside bus or a car to explore the sites if you get seasick. The bus runs between Shuishe Pier and Xuanguang Temple. It makes stops at 12 sightseeing spots along the way and the whole ride takes about 30 minutes. The scenery of the beautiful lake in Sun Moon Lake Day 2: Enjoy adventures at Moon Lake or take a cable car ride to the Formosan Aboriginal Culture Village. • Option 1: Take the cable car to go uphill to overlook the lake. The cable car ride takes about 10 minutes. From the mountaintop, you could walk to the Formosan Aboriginal Culture Village, which is a culturally-integrated theme park. • Option 2: Go cycling or try stand-up paddleboarding (SUP) in the morning near Shuishe Pier, then take a slow walk around the lake. There are several cycling paths around Sun Moon Lake. The route from Shuishe to the Xiangshan Visitor Center is particularly recommended. It is 3.4 kilometers (2 miles) long and has been listed as one of CNN's Top 10 Most Beautiful Bike Trails in the World. SUP is suitable for both children and adults. The most peaceful time to start this activity is at dawn. The lake is at its calmest at this time and no tourists would travel there yet. Slowly walk around the lake for relaxation. The scenery around Ci'en Pagoda is appealing for a walk, with lush forests surrounding the calm lake. Day 3: Leave for your next destination. If you could only spend 1 night at Sun Moon Lake, the itinerary could still be based on the plan above, just cancel the walk in the afternoon on day 2. Rent a bike and ride along the lakeside path for 1–2 hours before checking out of your hotel. Then, head to your next destination. Day Trip to Sun Moon Lake from Taipei or Taichung A 1-day schedule could be tight so try to leave as early as possible from your hotel. Considering the time limitations, we would suggest that you mainly visit the shores around Sun Lake. Most of the best attractions are located in this area. The route from Shuishe Pier to Xuanguang Temple to Yidashao Pier to Wenwu Temple is recommended. It takes 4–5 hours to enjoy these places. The Best Times to Visit Sun Moon Lake The weather at Sun Moon Lake is pleasant throughout the year, with average temperatures ranging from 19℃ to 29℃ (66–84℉). The recommended time to visit is from February to March when temperatures are cooler (from 14–25℃/57–77℉) for cherry blossom viewing and attending the annual Cherry Blossom Festival. The spring of Sun Moon Lake The second recommended time to visit is from October to November when average temperatures are between 20℃ and 24℃ (68–75℉). Most of the days are sunny and there is less rain. Besides these times, you could also choose to visit Sun Moon Lake when it holds some annual events. The Sun Moon Lake Swimming Carnival (around the Mid-Autumn Festival) and the Sun Moon Lake Cycling, Music & Fireworks Festival (October to November) are listed together with the Cherry Blossom Festival (February to March) as the three major annual events at Sun Moon Lake. April to June is the plum rain season in Taiwan, when temperatures rise (19–30°C/66–86°F) and rainfall increases (215 mm / 8.5 in on average). You may encounter frequent rainy days when traveling to Sun Moon Lake at this time of year. However, the lake and mountains in the mist and drizzle also have a special charm. July to September is the hottest time of the year (22–31°C/72–88°F). The sparkling lake in summer looks like silk sprinkled with gold, making it suitable for boat trips and SUP. As for December and January, it is winter in Taiwan. The weather is a bit colder at this time (14–24°C/57–75°F). The serene atmosphere of winter gives Sun Moon Lake a different kind of beauty. Sun Moon Lake is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Taiwan. It is crowded on weekends and accommodation is often fully booked. Therefore, consider visiting on a weekday when hotel prices are more reasonable. The best time of day to visit Sun Moon Lake is in the morning. There are fewer crowds, allowing you to savor the peaceful and elegant scenery. How to Get to Sun Moon Lake Surrounded by mountains on all sides, Sun Moon Lake has only one nearby highway. As a result, no matter which city is chosen as the place of departure, except for Taipei (from where you could take a bus from the Taipei Transfer Station), most travelers could only reach Sun Moon Lake through Taichung, or by using their own vehicle or chartered cars. Travel from Taichung (recommended) Sun Moon Lake is easily accessible from Taichung and it would take about 1 hour by car. You could also travel for 2 hours on Nantou Bus 6670 from Nantou Bus Gancheng Station, which is a few minutes' walk from Taichung Station. It would be farther to travel from Taipei to Sun Moon Lake, taking about 3 hours by car. There is no direct train from Taipei to Sun Moon Lake. From Taipei Bus Station, you could travel on Kuo Kuang Bus 1833, which takes 4 hours. Can I Swim in Sun Moon Lake? Normally, swimming in Sun Moon Lake is not allowed. However, the International Swimming Carnival is held at Sun Moon Lake around the Mid-Autumn Festival every year. It's a group swimming event that requires a team of five people to sign up for the event. The entire distance is about 3 kilometers (2 miles). It's okay if you are not able to complete the entire swim. However, if you succeed in the challenge, you would get a souvenir. This event attracts a great number of swimmers from all over Taiwan and overseas, resulting in large crowds during the event. What to Do Around Sun Moon Lake The drive between Sun Moon Lake and Alishan takes about 2½ hours. It is a must-see attraction in Taiwan as well. Dense forests, serene paths, fireflies, and starlight — these could offer you a different experience from the lake view of Sun Moon Lake. Driving to Qingjing Farm takes about 1½ hours. Many visitors also include Qingjing Farm in their itinerary when planning a trip to Sun Moon Lake. The farm is known as Taiwan's "Little Switzerland" and its pastoral landscape draws numerous tourists. In February and March, cherry blossoms would flourish everywhere on the farm. A town located to the north of Sun Moon Lake, about 30 minutes away by car. It is the transportation hub between Sun Moon Lake and Qingjing Farm. Some of the most popular attractions in the area are the Paper Dome and Nina Chocolate Workshop. You could also try paragliding there.