ID: 312eee5b941d833f
Title: Day tours in Hong Kong, Beijing, Shanghai, Xi'an, Guilin, etc.
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Our products covered the most popular major cities in China. Tour types are quite various, such as multiday package tour, classic one-day tours, half-day tours and fun activities of a few hours. Tour group sizes include coach group, small group of 2-10 people and private group. Theme tours include walking tours, biking tours, food tours, and so on. High- quality airport and train station transfers, cruise transfers and shore excursions were also provided for convenience of travelers. Hong Kong 1-day Hong Kong Landmark with Michelin Dim Sum 2-day Hong Kong & Macau by Turbojet 2-day Hong Kong & Lantau Island Tour Beijing 1-Day The Forbidden City and Great Wall Tour 2-Day Beijing All Famous Sites Tour Half-Day Mutianyu Great Wall Tour Shanghai 1-Day Shanghai and Zhujiajiao Watertown Tour 1-Day Zhouzhuang and Jinxi Watertown Tour Half-day Shanghai French Concession Biking Tour Xi'an 1-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Wall Tour Half-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors Tour 3-Hour Food Tour in Xi'an Muslim Quarter Chongqing 1-Day Chongqing Megacity Walking Tour 1-Day Wulong National Geology Park Private Tour 1-Day Private Tour to Dazu Rock Carvings Chengdu 1-Day Panda and Chengdu Lifestyle Tour 1-Day Leshan Giant Buddha and Tea Terrace Tour 2.5-hour Chengdu Evening Food Tour By Tuktuk Guilin 1-Day Yangshuo and Li River Tour 1-Day Longji Rice Terraced Fields Tour 1-Day Guilin City Highlights Tour Zhangjiajie 1-Day Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Tour 1-Day Zhangjiajie Tianmen Mountain Tour 1-Day Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon Tour Yunnan 1-day Lijiang Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tour 1-day Lijiang Jade Dragon Mountain Tour Huangshan 1-Day Yellow Mountain Tour Half-Day Hongcun Village Tour Hong Kong 1-day Hong Kong Landmark with Michelin Dim Sum 2-day Hong Kong & Macau by Turbojet 2-day Hong Kong & Lantau Island Tour 1-day Hong Kong Landmark with Michelin Dim Sum 2-day Hong Kong & Macau by Turbojet 2-day Hong Kong & Lantau Island Tour • 1-day Hong Kong Landmark with Michelin Dim Sum • 2-day Hong Kong & Macau by Turbojet • 2-day Hong Kong & Lantau Island Tour Beijing 1-Day The Forbidden City and Great Wall Tour 2-Day Beijing All Famous Sites Tour Half-Day Mutianyu Great Wall Tour 1-Day The Forbidden City and Great Wall Tour 2-Day Beijing All Famous Sites Tour Half-Day Mutianyu Great Wall Tour • 1-Day The Forbidden City and Great Wall Tour • 2-Day Beijing All Famous Sites Tour • Half-Day Mutianyu Great Wall Tour Shanghai 1-Day Shanghai and Zhujiajiao Watertown Tour 1-Day Zhouzhuang and Jinxi Watertown Tour Half-day Shanghai French Concession Biking Tour 1-Day Shanghai and Zhujiajiao Watertown Tour 1-Day Zhouzhuang and Jinxi Watertown Tour Half-day Shanghai French Concession Biking Tour • 1-Day Shanghai and Zhujiajiao Watertown Tour • 1-Day Zhouzhuang and Jinxi Watertown Tour • Half-day Shanghai French Concession Biking Tour Xi'an 1-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Wall Tour Half-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors Tour 3-Hour Food Tour in Xi'an Muslim Quarter 1-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Wall Tour Half-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors Tour 3-Hour Food Tour in Xi'an Muslim Quarter • 1-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Wall Tour • Half-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors Tour • 3-Hour Food Tour in Xi'an Muslim Quarter Chongqing 1-Day Chongqing Megacity Walking Tour 1-Day Wulong National Geology Park Private Tour 1-Day Private Tour to Dazu Rock Carvings 1-Day Chongqing Megacity Walking Tour 1-Day Wulong National Geology Park Private Tour 1-Day Private Tour to Dazu Rock Carvings • 1-Day Chongqing Megacity Walking Tour • 1-Day Wulong National Geology Park Private Tour • 1-Day Private Tour to Dazu Rock Carvings Chengdu 1-Day Panda and Chengdu Lifestyle Tour 1-Day Leshan Giant Buddha and Tea Terrace Tour 2.5-hour Chengdu Evening Food Tour By Tuktuk 1-Day Panda and Chengdu Lifestyle Tour 1-Day Leshan Giant Buddha and Tea Terrace Tour 2.5-hour Chengdu Evening Food Tour By Tuktuk • 1-Day Panda and Chengdu Lifestyle Tour • 1-Day Leshan Giant Buddha and Tea Terrace Tour • 2.5-hour Chengdu Evening Food Tour By Tuktuk Guilin 1-Day Yangshuo and Li River Tour 1-Day Longji Rice Terraced Fields Tour 1-Day Guilin City Highlights Tour 1-Day Yangshuo and Li River Tour 1-Day Longji Rice Terraced Fields Tour 1-Day Guilin City Highlights Tour • 1-Day Yangshuo and Li River Tour • 1-Day Longji Rice Terraced Fields Tour • 1-Day Guilin City Highlights Tour Zhangjiajie 1-Day Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Tour 1-Day Zhangjiajie Tianmen Mountain Tour 1-Day Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon Tour 1-Day Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Tour 1-Day Zhangjiajie Tianmen Mountain Tour 1-Day Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon Tour • 1-Day Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Tour • 1-Day Zhangjiajie Tianmen Mountain Tour • 1-Day Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon Tour Yunnan 1-day Lijiang Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tour 1-day Lijiang Jade Dragon Mountain Tour 1-day Lijiang Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tour 1-day Lijiang Jade Dragon Mountain Tour • 1-day Lijiang Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tour • 1-day Lijiang Jade Dragon Mountain Tour Huangshan 1-Day Yellow Mountain Tour Half-Day Hongcun Village Tour 1-Day Yellow Mountain Tour Half-Day Hongcun Village Tour • 1-Day Yellow Mountain Tour • Half-Day Hongcun Village Tour China Food Tours Great Wall Tours Fun Activities Why Us We provide quality standardized fragmented tourism solutions in China, including classic and innovative day trips, fun activities, sightseeing, must-dos and must-sees, tickets, and transfer services. It helps you get ideas when planning a trip and make easy decisions while traveling. Our goal is to make all efforts to offer you a wonderful day! We provide quality standardized fragmented tourism solutions in China, including classic and innovative day trips, fun activities, sightseeing, must-dos and must-sees, tickets, and transfer services. It helps you get ideas when planning a trip and make easy decisions while traveling. Our goal is to make all efforts to offer you a wonderful day! Fun and educational! Review of: One-day Beijing Highlights Tour on June, 2025, Marija T The tour was really great! Our guide was perfect and she showed us many interesting aspects of Beijing and, in general, the Chinese culture. The wall visit was breathtaking! More Fun and educational! Review of: One-day Beijing Highlights Tour on June, 2025, Marija T The tour was really great! Our guide was perfect and she showed us many interesting aspects of Beijing and, in general, the Chinese culture. The wall visit was breathtaking! More Review of: One-day Beijing Highlights Tour on June, 2025, Marija T The tour was really great! Our guide was perfect and she showed us many interesting aspects of Beijing and, in general, the Chinese culture. The wall visit was breathtaking! More Special cooking class with Bruce and Lily at their welcoming home Review of: 3-Hour Biang Biang Noodles Cooking Class in Xi'an on Jul 2025, Francesco B The whole experience was fantastic! Bruce and Lily welcomed me to their home after a visit to the food market in the Muslim quarter. It was a beautiful experience, they made me feel at home, and we had an enjoyable conversation. I strongly recommend the cooking class and the kind and warm welcome from Lily and Bruce! More Special cooking class with Bruce and Lily at their welcoming home Review of: 3-Hour Biang Biang Noodles Cooking Class in Xi'an on Jul 2025, Francesco B The whole experience was fantastic! Bruce and Lily welcomed me to their home after a visit to the food market in the Muslim quarter. It was a beautiful experience, they made me feel at home, and we had an enjoyable conversation. I strongly recommend the cooking class and the kind and warm welcome from Lily and Bruce! More Special cooking class with Bruce and Lily at their welcoming home Review of: 3-Hour Biang Biang Noodles Cooking Class in Xi'an on Jul 2025, Francesco B The whole experience was fantastic! Bruce and Lily welcomed me to their home after a visit to the food market in the Muslim quarter. It was a beautiful experience, they made me feel at home, and we had an enjoyable conversation. I strongly recommend the cooking class and the kind and warm welcome from Lily and Bruce! More Great experience! Review of: 1 Day Chongqing Megacity Walking Tour on July, 2025, Susanne J Must do in Chongqing. This is such a fascinating city. And probably difficult to explore on your own. Albert is a great guide with a profound knowledge of his city and history. His gave good tips what to visit and where to have some good food.More Great experience! Review of: 1 Day Chongqing Megacity Walking Tour on July, 2025, Susanne J Must do in Chongqing. This is such a fascinating city. And probably difficult to explore on your own. Albert is a great guide with a profound knowledge of his city and history. His gave good tips what to visit and where to have some good food.More Review of: 1 Day Chongqing Megacity Walking Tour on July, 2025, Susanne J Must do in Chongqing. This is such a fascinating city. And probably difficult to explore on your own. Albert is a great guide with a profound knowledge of his city and history. His gave good tips what to visit and where to have some good food.More