ID: 574b420646f7ab78
Title: How to Visit Lijiang Old Town: Your Handy Tour Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/lijiang/attraction/lijiang-ancient-town.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Lijiang Old Town, also known as Dayan Old Town, was a former trading town and a stop for traders carrying goods on the historic Tea Horse Road. It was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1997. The architecture of Lijiang Old Town is remarkable for its fusion of various ethnic styles, with Naxi architectural elements being the most prominent. Now, Lijiang Old Town has been commercialized and millions of tourists visit every year, but, though different, its character is now even more appealing — it's a magnet for travelers. • Address: Gucheng District, Lijiang, Yunnan • Best time to visit: all year round • Popular activities: photographing/admiring the old town's scenery, Naxi culture exploration, savoring local cuisine, vibrant nightlife experiences • Time needed: half a day • Opening time: open all day, but some activities and attractions inside are open from 9 am to 6 pm • Top Things to Do • Best Times to Visit • Recommended Tour Route • Lijiang/Shuhe/Baisha Ancient Town • Accommodation Area Options • Transportation Options • Tips for Visiting Top Things to Do in Lijiang Old Town 1. Appreciate and Photograph the Must-See Attractions • The Mufu (Mufu Mansion) was the royal residence of the Naxi people's Mu clan. You could learn about Lijiang's ethnic history and culture there. • Lion Hill is the highest point in Lijiang Old Town. A 10-minute climb would reward you with a stunning panoramic view and photos capturing the breadth of the town. • Sifang Street (Square Street) is the heart of Lijiang Old Town. It is the liveliest street with more entertainment options. • The Giant Water Wheels is a spectacular iconic landmark. Surrounded by water and flowers, it's a good photo spot. • Dayan Flower Lane is a brilliant flower-filled alley that's artistic, romantic, and an ideal backdrop for photos. • Sakura Restaurant is a splendid restaurant surrounded by flowers and succulent plants. This trendy hot spot is wonderful for photos. • The Stone Bridge, an old stone bridge adorned with plants, with a nearby alley decorated with oil-paper umbrellas, is a must-visit photo spot. • The Three Wells showcase a special well-making method of the Naxi people and are an interesting stop for history and culture lovers. 2. Explore the Charming Naxi Minority Culture Naxi Song and Dance Performance The Naxi culture is special. It remains less modernized, retaining its unique hieroglyphic writing, which has only been mastered by a diminishing group of elders. Their music blends with regional ethnic styles and can be heard performed in Lijiang Old Town. You could get insights into the Naxi culture in many places in the town, for example by visiting Dongba Culture Museum to trace the ancient Naxi culture, by going to Naxi Hieroglyphs and Painting Exhibition Hall to experience Naxi art, or by watching the evening show called Naxi Ancient Music in Naxi Concert Hall. If you happen to visit Lijiang Old Town during these festivals, the town would be even livelier and the ethnic atmosphere would be more vibrant: • The Bangbang Festival: on the 15th day of the 1st month of the lunar calendar (in February/March) • The Sanduo Festival: on the 8th day of the 2nd month of the lunar calendar (usually in March) • The Torch Festival: between the 25th and 27th days of the 6th month of the lunar calendar (in July/August) • The Ghost Festival: in the middle of the 7th month of the lunar calendar (in August/September) 3. Savor the Local Cuisine in Lijiang Old Town Lijiang Old Town blends diverse delicacies with flavors from various ethnic groups. The local cuisine features wild mountain ingredients and poultry, with a preference for sour and spicy tastes. You could enjoy common Yunnan dishes and snacks, such as flower cakes, crossing-the-bridge rice noodles, mushroom hot pot, package pulp tofu, and grilled milk fans. In addition, enjoy authentic Lijiang delicacies, such as chickpea jelly, Naxi fried pork ribs, Steam Pot Chicken, Lijiang baba, and Naxi roast pork. To experience these culinary treasures, you could head to Wuyi Street near Dayan Flower Lane, Sifang Street in the town center, or Zhongyi Market near the south gate. 4. Revel in the Vibrant Nighttime Atmosphere An alley with colorful hanging oil-paper umbrellas In contrast to its daytime tranquility, Lijiang Old Town becomes even more dazzling at night under the glow of lights, with various nighttime activities unfolding. You should not miss the evening Naxi ethnic activities. Diverse song and dance performances are held, especially in the central area (Sifang Street). Join a bonfire party or experience an evening tour of Mufu Palace to immerse yourself in the mansion's past. In addition, many restaurants, shops, and bars open up, creating an enchanting atmosphere for photography, snacks, and drinking at bars. The night market held at Zhongyi Market is popular, while the bar street near Sifang Street also provides an energetic evening scene. The Best Times to Visit Lijiang Old Town Best Seasons to Visit Lijiang Old Town is a year-round attraction, with spring (late March to May) and autumn (mid-October to November) being the best times to visit. These seasons enjoy less rainfall, fewer crowds, and comfortable temperatures ranging from 15–25°C (59–77°F), making it comfortable for walking around. Summer is cool (compared with most of the rest of China) with warm daytime temperatures of around 25°C (77°F), but it is also the rainy season. You may encounter unexpected showers so remember to take rain gear or you could take shelter from the rain in a café or snack bar. Winter is mild, offering enchanting flowers and more clear days. The daytime temperatures are typically 10–15°C (50–59°F). However, you would need to wear warm clothes if you plan to go out in the evening since the low nighttime temperatures are usually a little above freezing. Should You Visit in the Day or Night? We recommend visiting Lijiang Old Town during the day for a peaceful and pleasant experience. At night, you could stroll around to appreciate its livelier nocturnal charm. During the daytime, the old town has a relatively peaceful ambiance. It is ideal for sightseeing and photography. If you explore early (before 10am), you would enjoy many sections of the town to yourself with barely anyone else around. At night, Lijiang OId Town is splendid and bustling from 6pm to 11pm. It is perfect for evening activities, such as night shows, music, and bars. But the streets are also crowded with many travelers arriving for visits and activities during this time. A Tour Route for Lijiang Old Town The regular tour route for Lijiang Old Town usually begins at Zhongyi Market at the south gate or the Giant Water Wheels at the north gate, which are the main entrances. Typically, it takes half a day to wander around the whole town, but the duration could vary depending on your travel pace and preference. Each attraction is within a 3–10-minute walk from the next. You could choose your starting point according to the location of your accommodation so that you could conveniently return to your hotel to rest after a round of visits. A classic circular route: Zhongyi Market (忠义市场) → the three wells (三眼井) → Mufu Palace (木府) → Lion Hill (狮子山) → the Giant Water Wheels (大水车) → Dayan Flower Lane (大研花巷) → Wuyi Street (五一街) → the stone bridge (大石桥) → Square Street (四方街) → Sakura Restaurant (樱花餐厅) → Zhongyi Market (忠义市场) The Giant Water Wheels Where to Stay in Lijiang Old Town Lijiang Old Town is the top choice when staying in Lijiang due to its central location. Accommodation options are generally divided into those inside or outside the town. Here, we'll guide you on how to choose the most suitable areas in and around the town. Accommodation Map of Lijiang Old Town How to Get to Lijiang Old Town From Lijiang Sanyi International Airport, it is about 40 minutes' drive to Lijiang Old Town. You could take a taxi or the direct airport express bus to the south gate or the north gate (near the Giant Water Wheels). From Lijiang Railway Station, taking a taxi is a 20-minute drive. The second choice is taking a direct bus, which takes 1 hour to arrive but is most cost-effective. From Lijiang Old Town to Other Main Attractions It is convenient to visit other popular attractions in Lijiang from Lijiang Old Town, such as Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, Tiger Leaping Gorge and Lugu Lake. Tips for Visiting Lijiang Old Town • Wear comfortable shoes with a good grip. The old town has many cobblestone paths and slopes. The cobblestones are slippery when wet, so please be careful when walking on them. • Haggle hard. The prices of many commodities are often inflated. For example, ethnic tippets (scarfs/capes) usually cost 15–25 CNY each. If a vendor's price is higher, try bargaining or walk away. • There are lots of photo studios in the town. Compare the prices if you want to take photos. • Take sunscreen and warm clothes. The UV is strong and temperatures vary greatly from day to night. • For local products, flowers near the north gate have the best prices, costing 5–10 CNY for each bunch. Avoid buying fruit in the market as it's very expensive; opt for nearby side streets instead. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan Lijiang Old Town vs. Shuhe Ancient Town vs. Baisha Ancient Town Not far from Lijiang Old Town, you would find the ancient towns of Shuhe and Baisha. These towns all have the distinctive Naxi ethnic architectural style, but each of them exhibits unique characteristics. Destination Lijiang Old Town Shuhe Ancient Town Baisha Ancient Town Features Bustling, abundant with attractions, a more advanced infrastructure, and convenient transportation; popular with many first-timers Important stop along the Tea Horse Road; has a more vibrant and traditional local lifestyle Excellent view of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, the unique Naxi Dongba culture; more intangible cultural heritage activities Scale Quite large Small Small Tour Time Half a day 2–3 hours 2–3 hours Current Situation Commercialized More authentic Half-commercialized Crowds Crowded Quieter Less-crowded For first-time visitors to Lijiang with limited interest in ancient towns, it's best to choose just one of these to visit. Lijiang Old Town would usually be your top choice because of its iconic landmarks and popularity. If you have ample time and enjoy the ambiance of ancient towns or photography, you could also consider touring Shuhe Ancient Town for a peaceful and authentic vibe or Baisha Ancient Town to enjoy the vistas of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. For cultural enthusiasts, we recommend Baisha Village in Baisha Ancient Town. Known for its well-preserved Naxi architecture, traditional culture, and local crafts, it's a great place to experience Naxi embroidery and murals. Find Your Ideal Lijiang Tour Here Look at the following three sample Lijiang tours for inspiration. All our tours can be customized. If these are not close to what you are looking for, contact us. We will create a trip based on your group size, time, preferences, must-dos, interests, and other requirements. • 8-day Yunnan Family Tour with Lijiang • 7-Day Yunnan Ethnic Minorities Tour • 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour