ID: 6db85fc0ed3623a4
Title: Xi’an’s 3 Best Shopping Areas for Tourists
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xian/article-best-shopping-areas.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The three most popular shopping areas in Xi'an are around Muslim Street and Huajue Lane, located centrally, near the Bell and Drum Towers; Shuyuan Men street, just south, near the ancient City Wall; and, further south, the Zhuque Antiques Market, Wenbaozhai Tourist Shopping Center, etc. near the Wild Goose Pagodas. In these areas are the most famous souvenir shopping streets, snack streets, malls, supermarkets, and department stores for those intending to do some shopping in Xi'an. Area A) Near the Bell and Drum Towers The shops around the Bell and Drum Towers sell antiques and host ancient buildings and Muslim architecture and culture. Most people go to these areas to buy souvenirs. However, the streets also has many modern departmental stores, supermarkets and shops that sell modern clothes, Muslim food, as well as snacks and local food specialties to take home. • Metro Line 2, or bus 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 15, 16, 26, 29, 43, 45, 46, 123, or 201, among others, and alight at the Bell Tower. 1. Bell Tower Commercial Area The Bell Tower Commercial Area is the most popular and largest shopping area in Xi'an. It consists of the four streets, namely the East, South, North and West streets, where you can find modern architecture, big departmental stores and supermarkets. Huamin Street is a popular place for those intending to buy unique souvenirs, snacks, and admire ancient Muslim style architecture. You can also sample barbecues, spicy hot pot, many varieties of steamed buns and traditional Chinese cakes at the North Gate Night Market (北院门夜市), located just north of the Bell-Drum Tower Square. It hosts shops that sell souvenirs, food, handicraft, and other cultural specialties.Muslim Street is only 100 meters from the Bell Tower and is famed as a historic Silk Road destination, where visitors from Arabic countries and Persia settled for Silk business and studies during medieval times. One part of the Muslim Quarter is the Beiyuanmen Night Market where you can buy food, barbecue, casseroles and grilled fish dishes at reasonable prices, and souvenirs, although most of them are fake. The Huimin Streets is the name that refers to the Hui Minority (Chinese Muslims) area in Xi'an, and it consists of Beiyuan Gate, Huajue Lane, Xiyang Market, and Dapi Yuan streets. Traders on these streets sell souvenirs and snacks although tourists choose to visit the area to admire Muslim-style architecture. • It is a narrow street on the left side of the Muslim Quarter, near the Drum Tower and it hosts the Great Mosque - the largest mosque in China. 4. Minsheng Departmental Store Covering over 130,000 square meters, this store hosts food markets, cloth stores and commodity stores and can serve as a one-stop shopping destination for tourists. • Address: 103 Jiefang Road 5. Kai Yuan Shopping Mall (开元商城) It is one of the biggest shopping malls in the city and is located just east of the Bell Tower along the Dongdajie street. • Address: 6 Jiefang Market, East Avenue 6. Luomashi Commercial Pedestrian Street This street is located between the Bell Tower and Stele Forest at the west part of Dong Da Jie. Luomashi is a major commercial center where tourists go to sample local specialties, entertainment and culture. It hosts the Xi'an Walmart-owned store opened in October 2007, which sources products locally. Many people like it because it sells goods at reasonable prices. 7. Century Ginwa Shopping Mall Century Ginwa Shopping Mall is part of the malls at the larger Gaoxin business area, which also has the Golden Eagle Mall (biggest mall in the area and which offers clothes, jewelry, and electronics). These two are located at the Gaoxin Lu and Keji Lu intersection and are visited by many people who do white-collar jobs. You can also find the Wangzuo International Shopping Mall just outside Golden Eagle, which offers clothes and products from over sixty world-famous brands including Bally, Burberry, Dior, Givenchy, Lancome and Estee Lauder. • Address: 27 West Avenue, Bell and Drum Tower Square • 3-Day Essence of Xi'an Tour • 3-Day Beijing to Xi'an by High-Speed Rail Area B) Near the Xi'an City Wall Gates The Ancient City Wall Xi'an City Wall is the largest and best preserved ancient city wall in China, and one of the largest military defensive systems in the world. It attracts thousands of tourists each year. The shops near the city wall gates are known for selling antiques and other cultural items. For shopping near the city wall, you can also go to Wuji Antiques Market near the West Gate and the ancient street near the South Gate. Shuyuan Men street near the South Gate, behind the Forest of Steles, is the most popular shopping area near the city wall, and offers cultural relics and antiques. It is famous for selling antiques, calligraphy, souvenirs, paper-cuts and paintings. It is crowded most of the time, but a preferred destination by most of the first-time-to-Xi'an tourists. Most departmental stores in the street open from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. Area C) Near the Goose Pagodas and Shaanxi History Museum This shopping area is distinct from many other shopping areas around the city because the buildings have ancient architecture and therefore is a great consideration for visitors as an attraction in itself. There you can buy relics and items such as coins, model clay figures of Terracotta warriors, curio collections, calligraphy and paintings, as well as modern fashion clothes. 1. Xi'an Antique Market (Zhuque Antiques Market) This market is located at the intersection of Nan Erhuan Lu and Zhuque Lu Road near the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. It sells various antiques and is famous for tourists seeking treasure from curio collectors from all around the world. Remember that not all of them are genuine. People come here to buy small coins, including silk rugs, woolen blankets, Tang three-colored pottery, cloisonné, silk clothing and jewels. You can also buy other antiques including jade articles, calligraphy, paintings, historical relics, antiques, model clay figures of Terracotta warriors and horses • 1-DayXi'an Highlights Tour • 4-Day Xi'an and Huashan Mountain Tour 2. Wenbaozhai Tourist Shopping Center Translated to mean Cultural Treasures Room, the shopping center is famous among tourists because it offers silk rugs, woolen blankets, Jewels, jade articles, paintings, calligraphy, and silk clothing. Other products sold there include the clay models of Terracotta Warriors and Horses, antiques and bronze chariots and horses. • Address: 25 Yanta Bei Road 3. Great Tang All Day Mall This area attracts many tourists every day because of the nearby famous Big Wild Pagoda. Some of the famous malls here include the Great Tang All Day Mall. It's a cultural and commercial location. • Subway line 2 to Xiaozhai Station (Exit C) and walk eastward for 10 minutes, or tourist bus lines 4, 6, or 8. 4. SAGA Shopping Mall (西安赛格国际购物中心) The mall hosts some of the world famous fashion brands including Armani Jeans, Tommy Hilfiger, Guess, Ur, Ziozia, Snidel, VGO, and more. • Address: 123 Chang'an Nan Lu • Open: 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 5. Craft Art Museum of Shanxi The museum sells furniture made of padauk teak and elm, which has high collection value. You can also find and buy some of the world's finest carpets at the Xi'an Fenghuangchang market. These carpets are of mainly Persian and Chinese designs, made of silk warp and weft, and are handwoven in the traditional way. • Address: 10 Nanxin Street Touring Xi'an with Us Can Include Shopping China Highlights can help you visit the tourist attractions above, in addition to helping you shop in the most popular markets in Xi'an during your free time. All our tours have no forced shopping. 3-Day Essence of Xi'an Tour: Our tour guide will take you to Xi'an's top tourist attractions, including the City Wall, Terracotta Warriors, and Big Wild Goose Pagoda. 3-Day Xi'an Discovery by High-Speed Train from Beijing: The tour takes you to the highlights of Xi'an, and includes bullet train travel. 8-Day Golden Triangle Intercity Tour: In addition to Xi'an's highlights, you can also enjoy the best of Shanghai and Beijing. Customize your tour: You tell us where you would want to tour and/or shop around Xi'an, and at what time, and we will take you there your way. • Shopping in Xi'an • The Most Popular Xi'an Night Markets • Xian Travel Guide