ID: e1fd0bea0b0cee9
Title: How to Plan a Trip to China and Nepal 2026
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/plan-a-trip-to-china-and-nepal.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

For exploring ancient civilizations and breathtaking natural landscapes, especially Mount Everest, China and Nepal stand as ultimate destinations for travelers. In this article, we'll guide you through planning an awesome journey, allowing you to discover the unique beauty of both countries. • How Many Days Are Needed • Itinerary Suggestions • Which Country to Fly to First • How to Travel between China and Nepal • Best Times • Visa Requirements How Many Days Are Needed? Typically, we recommend an itinerary of about 2 weeks to explore China and Nepal. This duration allows for spending 1 week in China, exploring Tibet, and dedicating another week to visiting Nepal's two major cities — the capital Kathmandu and the renowned outdoor activity hub of Pokhara. If you have 3 to 4 weeks or even more, we recommend extending your itinerary in China. In addition to Tibet, you could spend a week exploring cities like Chengdu and Beijing to see pandas and visit the Great Wall, etc. You could also enrich your itinerary in Nepal, spending 2–3 days in Chitwan National Park or Lumbini (the birthplace of the first Buddha — Siddhartha Gautama), respectively. If you're a hiking enthusiast, you could spend 3–4 days on the Poon Hill Circuit trek route. For a more challenging experience, you could try the 7-to-10-day Annapurna Base Camp route or even the Everest Base Camp trek. Some tourists also add India to the mix. For a trip recommendation covering India, China, and Nepal, you could refer to our 20-Day China (including Tibet), Nepal, and India Tour. Itinerary Suggestions (3 Options) We offer three itinerary options: the classic 2-week plan, the extended 3-week option, and the shorter 12-day alternative. 1. A 2-Week Itinerary for China and Nepal If your main travel goal is to explore the cities and cultures around Mount Everest, then you can refer to this itinerary. Day City/Area Activity Day 1 Kathmandu Arrival and rest Days 2–3 Kathmandu Visit squares, temples, and museums Days 4–5 Pokhara Visit Devil's waterfall, lakes, museums, and temples; enjoy the sunrise Day 6 Kathmandu Departure for Tibet Days 7–13 Tibet Visit the Potala Palace, monasteries, and lakes; walk through Lhasa and visit a Tibetan family Day 14 Beijing Departure You could make your itinerary more diverse and interesting by taking a flight over the Himalayas from Kathmandu, where you could admire the spectacular mountain ranges from the air. If you enjoy adventure, you could also try paragliding in Pokhara. In this itinerary, you would enter Tibet through Nepal by land. Therefore, you would drive along and explore deep into southern Tibet and explore all the way to the capital, Lhasa. You would have more opportunities to see pristine landscapes and cultures. Both the car and guide service are exclusively for you, so you can stop for a break or a photo anywhere along the way. 2. An In-Depth 3-Week Trip in China and Nepal If you are a first-timer to both China and Nepal and have a longer vacation, this itinerary is suitable for reference. Day City Activity Day 1 Beijing Arrival and rest Days 2–4 Beijing Visit the Great Wall, historical sites, and hutongs Days 5–9 Lhasa Enjoy must-sees and monastery experiences plus a picnic visit to Yamdrok Lake Days 10–11 Chengdu Visit pandas Days 12–15 Kathmandu Visit temples and squares, and enjoy a view of Mount Everest Days 16–17 Pokhara Boating and sightseeing Days 18–19 Chitwan National Park Jungle safari Day 20 Lumbini Enjoy various temples Day 21 Return to Kathmandu Departure Different from the 2-week route, this itinerary would not only focus on Mount Everest but also explore other distinctive cities in Nepal and China, such as China's Chengdu, the hometown of pandas, and Nepal's famous Chitwan National Park for an exciting safari. In this itinerary, you would enter Nepal through Chengdu on a flight. In Chengdu, if you want a more interactive panda experience, we could arrange a panda volunteer program for you. You could get closer to the pandas by making panda cakes, cleaning their enclosures, and watching them being fed. Just contact us to create your trip. 15-Day Private Tour: Tibet–Xi'an–Luoyang Holy Tibet and Historical China Tour 15-Day Private Tour: Tibet–Xi'an–Luoyang Holy Tibet and Historical China Tour 15-Day Private Tour: Tibet–Xi'an–Luoyang Holy Tibet and Historical China Tour 3. Nepal and China in 12 Days Due to the shorter schedule, this itinerary is mainly focused on Kathmandu and Tibet. Day City Activity Day 1 Beijing Arrival and rest Days 2–8 Tibet Explore Tibetan culture and scenery Days 9–11 Kathmandu Visit temples and squares, and enjoy a view of Mount Everest Day 12 Kathmandu Departure Contact us and we'll customize your own personalized journey, tailored perfectly to fit your preferences and travel desires. Which Country to Fly to First The order does not make much difference to the whole journey. You could choose according to your preference, the available time, the price of flights, and other factors. But if you intend to travel by land between China and Nepal with a relatively short travel duration (10–12 days) and you don't want to spend too much time in Nepal, we recommend entering China first. This is because if you plan to enter Tibet from Nepal, you would need to process a Chinese visa in Nepal, which typically takes 4 working days. This would leave you with limited time to explore in China. 8-Day Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Private Tour Pilgrimage to the Roof of the World 8-Day Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Private Tour Pilgrimage to the Roof of the World 8-Day Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Private Tour Pilgrimage to the Roof of the World How to Travel Between China and Nepal There are two ways to travel between China and Nepal: by plane or by land. By plane: There are direct flights between Kathmandu (Nepal) and Lhasa (China) with a flight duration of approximately 2 hours. There are also direct flights between Chengdu and Kathmandu. • A bonus tip: When checking in for your flight, select a window seat on the right side for the Lhasa/Chengdu to Kathmandu journey. For the Kathmandu to Lhasa/Chengdu journey, choose a window seat on the left side. This way, you could get a bonus view of Mount Everest. By land: Gyirong Port is the main border crossing used by tourists. We would provide transportation to take you to the border and once you have passed through the border, your guide would pick you up on the other side of the port. See more on Nepal to Tibet: How to Travel & What to Prepare Costs for a Trip to China and Nepal We suggest allocating a daily budget of about 250–300 USD per person for a private tour. This budget allows you to maintain a balance between better experiences and sensible expenditures. The price includes flights/trains within China and Nepal as well as transportation between China and Nepal, 4- or 5-star hotels, lunches, attractions, guides, and private transport. Some luxury/special experiences would cost more, such as taking a flight over Mount Everest. It may cost 200 USD. The price difference between the low and high seasons isn't significantly large. What you should be aware of is that during some major holidays, such as Christmas and China's National Day, hotel prices could increase by 50% to 100%. We recommend booking 3 months in advance to ensure that you have more options and opportunities for comparison. When booking with us, you'll receive a 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights if you cancel up to 3 weeks before departure (more details here⇒). 8-Day Tibet Tour including Tsedang, Shigatse, and Lhasa Discover Tibet's Cultural Origins 8-Day Tibet Tour including Tsedang, Shigatse, and Lhasa Discover Tibet's Cultural Origins 8-Day Tibet Tour including Tsedang, Shigatse, and Lhasa Discover Tibet's Cultural Origins Most travelers, including American, British, and Australian tourists, need to apply for two visas: one to enter Nepal and one for China. Nepal makes getting a tourist visa quite simple by offering a visa-on-arrival option for Kathmandu's airport as well as land crossings. For a tourist visa (L visa) to China, we would provide the invitation letter that you would need for a tourist visa application when booking a tour with us. Important note: If you plan to enter Tibet by land from Nepal, you must apply for a Chinese visa in Nepal. We will arrange assistance for visa processing in Nepal. See more on the visa requirements on our How to Travel to Tibet from Nepal by Land Additionally, for foreign travelers visiting Tibet, Tibet Entry Permits are a must. 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China Best Times to Visit China and Nepal Spring (March and April) and autumn (September and October) are the best times to visit China and Nepal as well as Mount Everest. Spring is a good time for natural scenery and observing wildlife. Autumn is good for comfortable weather and outdoor activities, such as hiking. It is important to note that Tibet usually closes for 1 month in the Losar period in February/March. Summer vacations (June to August) may coincide with the rainy season in China and Nepal. Outdoor activities, such as hiking, may be limited, but you could discover Kathmandu's historical heritage without the crowds. Some plateau areas in China, such as Tibet, also have their warmest and most comfortable weather alongside higher oxygen levels in the summer. 14-Day Tibet Tour including Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar Pilgrimage to Mt. Kailash — "Center of the World" 14-Day Tibet Tour including Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar Pilgrimage to Mt. Kailash — "Center of the World" 14-Day Tibet Tour including Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar Pilgrimage to Mt. Kailash — "Center of the World" Tour China and Nepal with Us All of our tours can be adjusted or customized based on your requirements. Just contact us if you have a good idea about what you want to do or if you need some help to start planning. You Might Like to Read • How to Plan a Trip to China and India