ID: 61003c46c14bdea3
Title: Top 12 China Ski Resorts: Family, Intermediate or Advanced skiers
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/china-ski-resort/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China is experiencing a boom in skiing and snowboarding. There are over 700 ski resorts, and many are newly built or renovated with modern facilities. Whether you are a beginner, intermediate, or experienced skier, you could find ski resorts that would satisfy you in China. Glide freely through beautiful snowscapes with the wind singing and flakes of snow flying — you deserve a fun break this coming winter. So, what are the best and largest ski resorts in China? Which ones are more suitable for snowboarding? Which are suitable for a family holiday? This article will give you a brief introduction to 12 well-selected ski resorts for foreigners in China complete with guidelines for finding a suitable ski resort for you. • 1. How to Choose Your Ideal Ski Resort in China • 2. Top 12 China Ski Resorts • 3. How to Plan Your Skiing Tour in China (Budget & Booking) How to Choose Your Ideal Ski Resort in China Top Ski Resorts in China The ski resorts in China are mainly located in the northern and western parts: around Harbin, near Beijing, and in Xinjiang due to the naturally-suitable weather conditions with plenty of snow in winter. The skiing season there lasts for around 4–5 months (from early November to late March or April). If you're looking for excellent skiing and top winter attractions, like attending the Harbin Ice and Snow Festival and exploring the Snow Village, then choose ski resorts near Harbin and Jilin: • Yabuli Ski Resort (Club Med Yabuli): It is family-friendly with great winter activities, providing fun for children and a festive spirit. It is 1½ hours by train or 3 hours by car from Harbin. It is an ideal option after you enjoy the Harbin Ice Festival. By the way, for a similar service, Club Med Yabuli costs about half the price of Club Med Tomamu Hokkaido in Japan, which makes it a great value-for-money choice. See our 6-Day Harbin Ice Festival and Yabuli Club Med Tour. • Jilin Wanda Changbaishan International Ski Resort: It is family-friendly as well but takes about 7 hours to reach by car from Harbin. From Changbaishan Airport, it takes about 30 minutes to get there via a free shuttle bus ride. Besides skiing, you could extend your trip by 1 day to admire the spectacular scenery at Changbai Mountain (Heavenly Lake, Changbai Waterfall, Green Deep Pool, and the underground forest). See our 7-Day Harbin, China Snow Town, and Changbai Mountain Tour. • Beidahu Ski Resort (Club Med Beidahu) in Jilin: It has excellent powder snow conditions, which is particularly suitable for intermediate to advanced skiers. If skiing is your main interest, then choose this place. Otherwise, we would recommend Yabuli or Wanda Changbaishan for a more varied tour experience. Another area for intermediate to advanced skiers is Xinjiang. The Silk Road International Ski Resort and the Jiangjun Mountain Ski Resort in Altay are the top recommendations. Besides skiing, you could discover the unique Xinjiang Uyghur exotic customs and the spectacular desert scenery. • Silk Road International Ski Resort has variable terrain including a challenging slope, which is best for experts. It is about 1 hour's drive from Urumqi. • Jiangjun Mountain Ski Resort in Altay is famous for its excellent powdery snow, but it takes about 1 hour to get there by flight from Urumqi. If you're planning a trip to Beijing, Chengdu, or Yunnan this winter and would like 2–3 days of skiing, then choosing one of the ski resorts near these destinations would help to reduce the transport time and cost. • Huaibei Ski Resort: It is the only ski resort surrounded by the Great Wall. The scenery is great, but the facilities are comparatively outdated. If you're looking for photos with the Great Wall in the background when skiing, you could choose this one.. • Nanshan Ski Resort: It is the top recommendation. It is more family-friendly with a larger size and more facilities.. From Beijing, you can go to Zhangjiakou with 3 hours' drive to experience skiing. • Zhangjiakou Thaiwoo Ski Resort: It is family-friendly with more fun and festive spirit for kids. • Zhangjiakou Wanlong Ski Resort: It is more like a specialist center, concentrating on providing a pro-level skiing experience, so it's a great choice for advanced skiers. • Zhangjiakou Genting Ski Resort: It has more choices of intermediate and advanced trails. • Xiling Ski Resort: It is one of the best resorts and the nearest big ski resort to Chengdu. The skiing experience could not be compared with that of Harbin or Changbaishan, but it is adequate for new skiers. Be prepared for queues of 1 to 2 hours during China's public holidays or on weekends. • Jiaozi Snow Mountain Ski Resort: It is about a 2-hour drive from Kunming. Although the ski resort is not built on a large site, it boasts nine diverse trails for all skill levels, from beginners to advanced (five beginners, two intermediate, one advanced, and one snowboard). Besides skiing, its lakes, snow and ice, seas of clouds, sunrises, and Buddha's light are also worth viewing. 1. Harbin Yabuli Ski Resort Yabuli Ski Resort is not a single resort: it consists of over 10 small ski resorts, lying on three mountains with altitudes ranging from 1,000 to 1,374 meters (3,280–4,508 ft). Among them all, Sun Mountain Ski Resort, where China's first Club Med is located, is the most popular one for its friendly trails and up-to-date facilities. Other resorts in Yabuli are very crowded, with comparatively older equipment or smaller sizes. A great reason for skiing in Yabuli is that you are able to ski on the three mountains (over 49 trails) while staying in one of the resorts there. • Features: the oldest, largest, and best ski resort in China — China's first Club Med • Location: 1½ hours by train or 3 hours by car from Harbin • Skiing season: mid-November – late March • Vertical drop: 918 m (3,012 ft) • Trails: 49 trails (7 beginners, 25 intermediate, 10 advanced, and 7 expert) • Facilities: equipped with high-speed heated gondolas, chairlifts, and magic carpets • Snowboarding: It hosted the 2016 Snowboarding World Championships. • Ski-in ski-out: Yes • Suitable for: all, particularly experienced skiers Check out our 4-Day Club Med Yabuli Skiing Vacation with Airport Transfer. If you are looking for an all-inclusive Club Med skiing tour in Yabuli with a private English-speaking guiding service and sightseeing nearby, our 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour could be a good choice. 2. Jilin Wanda Changbaishan International Ski Resort Changbai Mountain International Ski Resort is more like a snow theme park. It is well-designed for winter relaxation and has plenty of choices of hotels, from luxury 6-star to economy hostels. The free warm-up instructors, skiing assistants, and safety assistants help to bring you a friendly and relaxing winter escape. The most challenging trail at Jilin Wanda is the Heilong ('Black Dragon') trail, with a maximum slope of 36.7°. It looks more like a ski jump ramp if you look down from the top. It's best to ski in the morning, as this trail gets severely icy after the sunshine gets on it. Changbaishan ski resort is easily reachable, with flights from Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Changchun, Xi'an, and Harbin. • Features: the second largest ski resort in China, a crater-shaped maze of trails that's sheltered from the wind • Location: 30 minutes by free shuttle bus ride from Changbaishan Airport (IATA code: NBS) • Skiing season: mid-November – April • Vertical drop: 390 m (1,280 ft) • Trails: 43 trails (20 beginners, 14 intermediate, 9 advanced) • Facilities: 5 chair lifts, 2 high-speed heated gondolas, and 12 magic carpets • Ski-in ski-out: yes • Night Skiing: 16:00–21:00 • Suitable for: all, particularly beginner-to-intermediate skiers as well as families and friends to have winter fun Besides skiing, you could admire the amazing winter snow scenery of Changbai Mountain Nature Reserve. Changbaishan is the only place in China offering raft rides on a hot spring river with gorgeous rime on both sides. Don't be afraid of getting wet. Any splashes freeze immediately after falling on the rubber boat! 3. Beidahu Ski Resort (Jilin) Thanks to its unique climate and variable terrain, Beidahu Ski Resort is one of the resorts that have the best snow quality in China. It is also a designated ski training resort for the national skiing team, chosen for its high-level facilities. The 2.3-km (1.4-mile) Lianggang trail (N7) is a must-try for advanced skiers. It has no guardrails, a dense forest trail, and open views. If the weather allows, you can enjoy amazing rime along this trail. China's second ski-themed Club Med is located there, where you can enjoy their all-inclusive service for an even more enjoyable ski holiday. • Features: the biggest vertical drop in Asia; "a kingdom of powder snow"; training center for national ski sports, rime landscapes • Location: 2 hours by car from Changchun Longjia International Airport (CGQ); 1½ hours by car from Jilin Railway Station • Skiing season: mid-November – April • Vertical drop: 850 m (2,789 ft) • Trails: 22 trails (5 beginners, 11 intermediate, 6 advanced) • Facilities: 3 chair lifts, 2 gondolas, 1 drag lift, and 4 magic carpets • Ski-in ski-out: yes • Night Skiing: yes • Suitable for: all, particularly intermediate to advanced skiers • Cons: not for beginners, not family-friendly 4. Beijing Nanshan Ski Resort Beijing Nanshan Ski Resort is the largest ski resort with the most comprehensive range of ski trails near Beijing. It has China's first international standard half-pipe snowboard facility and Mogul ski trail. The mini-park, kids' nursery, and ski learning trail make it a family-friendly resort. The Alpine-style café and wooden villas in the resort bring you the atmosphere of skiing in the Alps. All in all, Nanshan Ski Resort is a perfect day trip destination for visitors and residents of Beijing or families with children. • Features: largest ski resort close to Beijing, family-friendly • Location: 1½ hours' driving from downtown Beijing • Skiing season: mid-December – March • Vertical drop: 390 m (1,280 ft) • Trails: 26 trails (12 beginners, 8 intermediate, 4 advanced, 1 Mellow Park, 1 mini-park) • Facilities: 3 chair lifts, 13 drag lifts, and 9 magic carpets • Night skiing: 18:00–21:30 • Snowboarding: yes, at the Mellow Park • Suitable for: all, especially for beginners, advanced skiers, and snowboarders • Cons: the intermediate and advanced trails are comparatively narrow On the way to the resort, you can visit the Mutianyu Great Wall section — our most recommended Great Wall section as it is less crowded and well-preserved. And you can also relax in Chunhuiyuan Hot Spring Resort after skiing, with countless indoor and outdoor hot spring pools of various sizes and temperatures. 5. Beijing Huaibei Ski Resort Beijing Huaibei Ski Resort is the only ski resort surrounded by the Great Wall and is considered to be "the most beautiful ski resort in Beijing". You can enjoy Mutianyu's Great Wall — the most child-friendly Great Wall section, while on a skiing trip. • Features: surrounded by Mutianyu's Great Wall • Location: 1½ hours' driving from downtown Beijing • Skiing season: December – March • Vertical drop: 238 m (780 ft) • Trails: 11 trails (2 beginners, 8 intermediate, 1 advanced) • Facilities: 3 chair lifts, 1 drag lift, and 4 magic carpets • Ski-in ski-out: yes • Night Skiing: 17:30–22:30 • Suitable for: all, especially for beginners and intermediate skiers • Cons: the chair lifts are comparatively slow, snowmaking is not frequent 6. Zhangjiakou Wanlong Ski Resort Zhangjiakou Wanlong Ski Resort is the earliest large-scale ski resort in Zhangjiakou and offers the longest skiing period. The resort is more like a specialist center, concentrating on providing a pro-level skiing experience, so it's a great choice for advanced skiers. The resort offers stable snow quality or good quality powder snow, and there's one improved wild snow forest area worth a try. The service at Wanlong Ski Resort is very considerate, with a spacious ski hall, free storage of ski kits, free facial tissues, and plenty of charging stations. And every day at around 15:00, you can taste free ginger tea, hot chocolate, and cookies. The food there is known as 'the Michelin in the snowfield' — tasty but affordable. • Features: earliest big ski resort, a great reputation, tasty food, and warm service • Location: 33 km (around 80 mins) from Zhangjiakou Railway Station; 220 km (around 2½ hours) from Beijing • Skiing season: late October to early May • Vertical drop: 554 m (1,818 ft) • Trails: 32 trails (6 beginners, 4 intermediate, 22 advanced) • Facilities: 7 chair lifts and 3 magic carpets • Ski-in ski-out: yes • Suitable for: all, especially for intermediate to advanced skiers • Cons: country-style decoration from the 1990s, lift tickets are comparatively dearer than other resorts in Zhangjiakou, it's crowded whenever it's open (only two ski trails are open: intermediate and high-level), limited snow parks, not family-friendly 7. Zhangjiakou Genting Ski Resort Designated as a 2022 Winter Olympics competition venue, Zhangjiakou Genting Ski Resort is knowns for its varied terrain, wild snow trails and parks, large U-shaped ramps, and multiple elements that bring more skiing fun with high-level facilities for intermediate and advanced skiers. You can keep a close watch on how the national skiing team is trained there. Sharing the same mountain peak, Genting Ski Resort cooperates with Wanlong Ski Resort next door offering a joint lift ticket, with skiing from Chinese Dragon Trail in Wanlong to Lavender Trail (6B) in Genting or vice versa. The Lavender Trail (6B) is considered to be 'king of the trails' in Genting, with no wind, no ice, a moderate slope, and a wide and straight slope — a holy trail for many experienced skiers. District 22 is regarded as the "God's Back Garden", as it has fewer connecting roads and is equipped with an independent chair lift (line 22). The 1.9-km (1.2-mile) Thyme Trail (22D) is a must-try for intermediate skiers to practice and improve on. • Features: one of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympic Games venues, comfortable experience, plenty of hotel rooms • Location: 4 km (2½ miles) from Zhangjiakou Railway Station; about 220 km (2½ hours) from Beijing • Skiing season: late November – late March • Vertical drop: 398 m (1,305 ft) • Trails: 41 trails (2 beginners, 20 intermediate, 13 advanced, and 6 wild trails and snow parks) • Facilities: 5 high-speed heated gondolas and chair lifts and 3 magic carpets • Ski-in ski-out: yes • Snowboarding: yes • Suitable for: all, especially for intermediate and advanced skiers 8. Zhangjiakou Thaiwoo Ski Resort The newly-built Thaiwoo Ski Resort lies on Yushi Liang ('Jade Peak') with an altitude of 2,160 m (7,086 ft) and is recognized as Zhangjiakou's "Golden Zone for Alpine Sports". This resort has a human-centered design with separate skiing zones for different levels to avoid unnecessary collisions and to provide the best skiing experience. It is rich in options for food, entertainment, and accommodations, providing a great atmosphere for family gatherings and team building. A skiing school under the Switzerland system provides professional ski training courses. • Features: separate zones for different levels, Western-style holiday atmosphere, amazing nightlife and night views, shops for international first-rate snow wear brands • Location: 4 km (2½ miles) from Zhangjiakou Railway Station (nearest station); 3 hours' drive from Beijing • Skiing season: mid-November – late March • Vertical drop: 510 m (1,673 ft) • Trails: 31 trails including 3 expert tails (double black) • Facilities: 6 high-speed heated gondolas or chair lifts and 13 magic carpets • Suitable for: all, especially for family vacations • Cons: located in an exposed location with comparatively stronger winds than in other places; cable car transfers are comparatively slow; the 8-person gondola caters to only 6 people at a time with the other two seats fitted with heavy weights for wind attenuation We have specially designed a 6-Day Beijing Winter Tour with Skiing in Thaiwoo Ski Resort for those who would like to discover Beijing's winter charm and ski at one of the Winter Olympic Games venues. Thaiwoo could be swapped for another resort. Enjoy limitless customization with us. 9. Chengdu Xiling Ski Resort Featuring the highest snow-capped peak near Chengdu, the Xiling Snow Mountain area is praised as 'the Oriental Alps of South China'. It is a big snow playground and a good place for skiing. • Features: China's best lofty-mountain ski resort, more like a snow amusement park, instead of an area dedicated to skiing • Location: Xiling Snow Mountain, 2 hours' driving from Chengdu • Skiing season: Mid-December to March • Trails: 6 trails (5 beginners, 2 intermediate, 1 advanced, and 1 snowboard) • Facilities: 1 chair lift, 1 gondola, and 5 drag lifts or magic carpets • Night skiing: 19:00–21:00 • Suitable for: all, especially for beginners and intermediate skiers • Cons: crowded during peak skiing season; waiting in a queue for 1–2 hours in peak times (weekends, holidays…) is common Besides being a natural ski resort, the Xiling Snow Mountain area is a good habitat for giant pandas with dense bamboo forests. Chengdu is the hometown of giant pandas with many nearby panda bases, so you should not a miss panda encounter during a Chengdu vacation. See our suggested Chengdu and Panda Tours. They could all be customized to include skiing. 10. Kunming's Jiaozi Snow Mountain Ski Resort Kunming, the capital city of Yunnan, is a popular tourist destination with warm winters and cool summers. Jiaozi Snow Mountain Ski Resort is about 2 hours' driving from Kunming. It could be the icing on the cake for your coming winter vacation. The ski resort features a range of slopes catering to various skill levels, including beginner-friendly runs, intermediate slopes, and challenging terrain for advanced skiers and snowboarders. You could also experience other winter fun, such as snow tubing and snowmobiling. • Features: Located on the picturesque Jiaozi Snow Mountain, it provides a range of slopes catering to various skill levels. • Location: 3 hours' drive from Kunming city • Skiing season: mid-December to February • Vertical drop: 500 m (1,640 ft) • Trails: five trails (two for beginners and three for intermediates) • Facilities: five chair lifts, two high-speed heated gondolas, and 12 magic carpets • Night skiing: 7pm–10pm • Suitable for: all, particularly beginner-to-intermediate skiers as well as families who want to enjoy some winter fun See some popular private Yunnan tours besides skiing. 11. Silk Road Ski Resort (Urumqi) Known as the "warmest ski resort in China", Silk Road Ski Resort has the top two most challenging trails in China: the Xuan Zang trail and the Ai Wen trail, with maximum slopes reaching 37° and 36°. You can buy two types of lift tickets: the alpine area for advanced and intermediate skiers and the beginners' area. • Features: closest to Urumqi city, a 4A scenic area at the foot of Tianshan (Heavenly Mountain) • Location: 1 hour's drive from Urumqi • Skiing season: early November – late March • Vertical drop: 700 m (2,297 ft) • Trails: 12 trails (3 beginners, 2 intermediate, 6 advanced, and 1 under construction) • Facilities: 2 high-speed heated gondolas, 4 chair lifts, and 2 magic carpets • Night skiing: 19:00–22:30 • Ski-in ski-out: yes • Suitable for: all, especially for advanced skiers Silk Road International Ski Resort is located inside Nanshan National Forest Park and is itself a scenic spot at the foot of Heavenly Mountain. You could take the cable car up to enjoy the snowy mountain views or soak in a hot spring to relax. Urumqi in Xinjiang was an important part of China's Silk Road. See our Silk Road Tours if you are interested in Silk Road culture. 12. Jiangjun Hill Ski Resort (Altay) If you are looking for sunny days, light winds, natural powder snow, and wild adventure, then Jiangjun Hill Ski Resort in Altay, Xinjiang is the right place to go. Altay receives abundant snow for more than 179 days each year, giving skiers the best quality snow experience. Skiing on the N1 Trail, you can have a panoramic view of the whole ski resort or overlook Altay City. The N3 trail offers great views of the sunset and the seas of clouds. The newly opened south slope is more favored by snowboarders. You will have a much better night skiing experience on the 3 km (1.86 miles) Jinguang Trail (Golden Light) with excellent visual effects but fewer people than in day time. • Features: best quality snow, China's only alpine ski resort connected to the city, a paradise for snowboarding • Location: 5-10 mins' drive from Altay city • Skiing season: November – April • Vertical drop: 460 m (1,510 ft) • Trails: 41 trails with mostly advanced ones • Facilities: 2 high speed heated gondola, 4 chair lifts, 1 drag lift, and 6 magic carpets • Night skiing: 19:00–23:00 • Suitable for: all, especially advanced skiers • Cons: It's best to start before 10:00 am or after 11:30 am to avoid long lines for lift tickets and equipment rental. Tips: For international skiers, there're limited hotels that are qualified to cater to international visitors. Contact our Xinjiang ski expert for suitable recommendations. Ski Resort Near Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Changsha Ski resorts near Chengdu and Shanghai are the secondary choices, often chosen for convenience by people living in central, eastern, and southern China. Due to temperature requirements, these ski resorts can only be found on high mountains, on a small scale, and are open for no more than 3 months (from late December to early March). The skiing trails are artificial snow combined with limited natural snow. In major big cities like Guangzhou, Shanghai, Chengdu, and Changsha, a few indoor ski resorts (mostly Sunac Snow Worlds) are open all the year-round and are favored by local citizens who prefer not to travel far to the north or western China but still want to experience snow fun or to escape from the summer heat. How to Plan Your Skiing Tour in China (Budget and Booking) Apart from accommodation and transportation, the estimated cost for the lift tickets (basic ski resort cost) is around CN¥500 per person per day, which is quite similar to skiing in Japan or in France. You will have plenty of choices of hotels inside the ski resorts with an average cost of CN¥2,000 (US$295) per room per night. In return, you will enjoy free lift tickets, hot spring tickets, or possibly one free lunch or dinner, etc. During skiing peak season, rooms can be overbooked quickly, and room rates in/near ski resorts can change daily. So how far in advance you should book your ski tour? For early birds, it is better to book the hotels and lift tickets in early November when most ski resorts are ready to open and the big discounts are offered. For popular destinations like Yabuli ski resort, better to book at before November to ensure the hotel rooms and acceptable rates. China Highlights offers various tour options to provide you with the best skiing experience and a worry-free tour. Contact our China Ski experts for more information.