ID: 6d42409fbfbf7d1c
Title: How to Get to and Around Guilin: A Guide for Transportation
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/guilin/transportation.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-07-30T00:00:00
================================================================================

As a world-renowned tourist city, Guilin is widely connected by an international airport and three railway stations, both domestically and overseas. Unfortunately, Guilin does not have a metro system for getting around. To explore the city and neighbouring counties such as Yangshuo and Longsheng, there are multiple transportation options to choose from, depending on your budget, including buses, coaches, taxis, and private transfers. • How to Get to Guilin • How to Get Around Guilin City • How to Get From Guilin to Yangshuo • How to Get From Guilin to the Longji Rice Terraces • How to Travel from Yangshuo to Longji Terraced Fields Taking an airplane is the most convenient way to travel to Guilin, especially from a remote distance that takes ages to reach by car or train, such as Beijing, Shanghai, and Xi'an. You will arrive at Guilin Liangjiang International Airport, the only airport in Guilin, which is 30 kilometers west of the city, and the drive will take about 50 minutes. Shuttles from the airport can reach all three train stations, making several stops along the way. Since your hotel is probably located in the downtown area, you will need to take a bus or taxi to the rest of the way. We suggest you take the Airport-scenic Spot Connection Line(桂林机场景区联程班线) to the Elephant Trunk Hill, or take the Downtown Line 1 to the terminal stop (桂林民航大厦Guilin Civil Aviation Building), depending on your hotel's location. To save you time and trouble, you can travel with us. We will offer private transfers throughout your journey with a private guide and a driver, which will make the journey smooth and efficient. Trains can be an alternative when there are no direct flights or when traveling from a nearby city, or you intend to save some budget since trains are typically 30% cheaper or more. Taking into account the time for check-in and luggage drop, trains may be faster and more convenient. For example, direct flights between Hong Kong and Guilin are only available on Tuesday and Saturday, taking about an hour and a half. So if your travel date falls at other times, taking a bullet train for about 3 to 4 hours is also acceptable. There are three railway stations in the city of Guilin. Train Station From the Downtown Area By Taxi By Public Bus Guilin Railway Station 15 minutes 25 minutes Guilin North Railway Station 40 minutes 1 hour Guilin West Railway Station 50 minutes 1 hour and 20 minutes Booking train tickets online has become popular among Chinese people. However, this could be a hard job if you are not familiar with Chinese Apps and language barriers. For more information about ticket reservations, destinations, or travel routes that need to be included in your private tour, please feel free to reach out to us. How to Get Around Guilin City A bus journey in Guilin city usually costs 2 yuan (less than half a dollar) as a one-time payment. It may be single- or double-decker, and most bus stops have clear English signs, while the broadcasts also have an English version. This could be a good way to slowly learn about the city and locals' routine, only if you have plenty of travel time. However, we suggest avoiding rush commute hours, when buses are overcrowded, even the double-decker ones. Taxi fares in Guilin City are regulated, being relatively cheaper compared to developed cities, such as Beijing and Shanghai. You could grab one that is parked on the roadside, or stop one with a sign that has a green light on its windshield (a red light means occupied). Since most taxi drivers cannot speak English, you can get help from the hotel staff or your private guide, and ask them to write down the destination to show the driver. Alternatively, let your guide show you around instead (additional charges may apply). This is the most efficient and hassle-free way to explore Guilin City, as long as you have determined where you want to visit in advance. After planning an itinerary, your private guide will accompany you all along, help you with the tickets, reservation confirmation, and more. How to Get From Guilin to Yangshuo Yangshuo County is about 70 km (45 miles) from Guilin City. There are multiple ways to travel, including by coach, taxi, river cruise, and private transfer. Among them, we suggest choosing a Li River Cruise to enjoy the view along the way leisurely for about 4 hours, or a private transfer for comprehensive service and detailed explanation with a 2-hour drive. From To Cost Guilin Liangjiang International Airport; By a shuttle Yangshuo West Street 7 USD/pp; 2 and a half hours Guilin South Coach Station; By a coach Yangshuo Coach Station 3 USD/pp; 2 hours Guilin Downtown Area; By a taxi Yangshuo West Street 40 USD; 1 and a half hours Guilin Zhujiang Pier; By a Li River Cruise Yangshuo Longtou Shan Pier from 40 to 180+ USD/pp; 4 hours Guilin City; By a private car with a private guide and a driver Yangshuo It depends; 1 and a half hours • By a shuttle from Guilin Liangjiang International Airport: Take the Long-distance Line 2 from Guilin Liangjiang International Airport to Yangshuo West Street. Typically, shuttles depart every 2 hours from about 9 am to 4 pm, and 1 hour is needed to wait for the transfer at Qintan Coach Station. You can check the schedule and book your ticket at the airport. • By a coach from Guilin Coach Station: Get a coach from Guilin South Coach Station, which departs every 25 minutes or so for about 3 USD/pp. The journey will take about 2 hours to reach Yangshuo. • By a taxi from the Guilin Downtown Area: Taxis cost about 40 USD in total, while at night or during public holidays, the rates may be 30% higher. Due to the language barrier, you will need to inform the driver exactly where you need to arrive in Chinese. • By a Li River Cruise from Guilin Zhujiang Pier: The most recommended way to travel to Yangshuo. Cruises typically depart around 9 am every morning and take 3-4 hours to reach Yangshuo. You can enjoy the karst landscape and cool breezes along the way leisurely. For further information, see our 1-day Li River cruise to Yangshuo. • By a private transfer: Travel with us, and we can provide comfortable transport with a knowledgeable guide who will take care of your itinerary, offering hassle-free service. How to Get From Guilin to the Longji Rice Terraces Longji Terraced Fields Scenic Area, located in Longsheng County, is 95 km (60 miles) from Guilin. Due to the mountainous terrain, the ways to get to Longji are limited to three ways: taking a coach, a taxi, or a private transfer. To ensure a smooth trip and a hassle-free experience, we recommend choosing a private transfer to make the most of your time. All you need to worry about is how to enjoy yourself among the spectacular rice terraces. The coach journey is potentially difficult due to the lack of English-speaking service, and you need to reserve your seat online in advance. The coach from Guilin Qintan Coach Station departs every 30 minutes for 9 USD/pp and will take 2-3 hours to reach Longji Rice Terraces. Remember to double-check your terminal stop, whether Longsheng County or Longji Rice Terraces, which leads to a huge difference for another 20-minute drive away. After arriving, you will still need to purchase your shuttle seat and admission ticket at the Visitor Center and confirm which village you want to visit. Some hotels at Longji Rice Terraces offer pick-up and drop-off services, so please confirm with the hotel in advance. Like traveling from Guilin to Yangshuo, taxis cost about 40 USD from Guilin to Longji, and they may charge more during public holidays. Due to the language barrier, make sure the driver understands that the destination is Longji Rice Terraces(龙脊梯田) instead of Longsheng County(龙胜县) to avoid a detour. It should be noted that the scenic area is closed after 5 pm, and the route consists of many mountain roads, so you will need to arrive or leave the area earlier to avoid nighttime driving. What's more, remember to let the taxi driver use the meter and pay the actual amount to avoid unnecessary disputes. The most convenient and time-saving way is to take a private tour with us. We will arrange a private guide who speaks your language, a professional driver who knows the road conditions, and a private car that offers both safety and comfort. How to Travel from Yangshuo to Longji Terraced Fields Longji Terraced Fields Scenic Area is about 150 km (95 miles) from Yangshuo County, which makes a 4-hour journey. Most taxis are unwilling to travel between Yangshuo and Longji Rice Terraces, so you can only choose coaches or private transfers. There are only two coaches a day, at 9 am and 2 pm. Since the journey takes at least 4 hours and Longji Terraces stops entering at 5 pm, you can only choose the 9 am one at a cost of 5 USD/pp. Private transfers could be your prime choice, offering efficient transportation, a comfortable experience, and hassle-free communication. Contact us and start planning your journey that is customized according to your interests and needs. Traveling to Guilin with Us Still have no clue about planning a Guilin tour? Let us lend you a hand. Our tours are designed based on well over decades of experience and feedback from our clients. Feel free to customize the sample tour to your requirements, and we will do our best to meet your needs. Reach out to us now to start your journey. • 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery • 5-Day Dynamic Guilin and Yangshuo Tour • 7-Day Longji Rice Terraces, Li River, and Yulong River Hiking Tour