ID: 654a832ece8d80ba
Title: One-Day Huangshan Yellow Mountain Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/huangshan/1-day-huangshan-mountain-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ The fairyland-like Huangshan national park occupying an area of 160.6 square kilometers. The Yellow Mountain is one of the most famous and beautiful mountainous areas in China. It was listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1990. The Yellow Mountains are not so called because the mountains are yellow, but because the area was renamed after the legendary Yellow Emperor (Huang Di) in 747 AD. Its spectacular natural scenery includes oddly-shaped pines and rocks, and mystical seas of cloud and hot springs, also they're called four wonders of Huangshan Mountain. In different seasons around a year the mountain has various and unique beauty, such as the wild spring flowers, specular summer waterfalls, colorful autumn leaves and white winter rime. Have a tour with us to hike the mountain and enjoy the wonderful view in Yellow Mountain! Tour Highlights Ride the cableway up and down the mountain, saving your time for beauty viewing Take 4-hour mountain hiking tour with tour guide to get a full knowledge of Yellow Mountain. Have a chance to see glorious natural wonders, like sea of cloud in the mountain. Well-designed route to visit the essence of mountains in one day. The Design of the Day Trip Small group tour make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! Guaranteed departure for a solo traveler. No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:30 AM - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add: No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District, Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can get there by bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver " 您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AMTake Coach To Huangshan National Park After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to the Yellow Mountain by coach. It will take 1.5 hour to get to there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Huangshan on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial food in Huangshan, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and the Yellow Mountain, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting the Yellow Mountain is in a private small group. 10:00 AM –12:00 PMVisit the Yellow Mountain Arrive at Huangshan Scenic Area Transfer Center, you are arranged on shuttle bus riding to the Yungu cable station. Then, take the cable car (not included) up to the mountain. Upon arrival on the Beginning-to-Believe Peak, facing abyss at three sides and watching a pointed peak with a flower-like pine tree growing at its tip. Cable car Beginning-to-believe peak There are hundreds of rare pine trees in Huangshan. Scattered trees grow in adamant cracks, so they are one of the wonders of Yellow Mountain. We will also see a most remarkable pine tree is called Black Tiger Pine. After that, you can see many strange and odd-shapped rocks. These stones vary some something in life, some people, som animals, etc, like Penholder Peak (Bi Jia Feng), Meng Bi Sheng Hua. Black Tiger Pine Pine trees on the mountain Meng Bi Sheng Hua Our Guests in Huangshan 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMLunch Time There are some hotels and restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Stinky Mandarin Fish Good to Know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 1:00 PM – 4:00 PMContinue to Visit Other Highlights In the afternoon, we are going to see Shuguang Pavilion, Refreshing Terrace and get to the higher top at Lion Peak. Shuguang Pavilion is a great angle to shoot strange stones and peaks. From the pavillion, we will walk the ways stretching out of the cliffs to go Refreshing Terrace to enjoy the soaring peaks decorated with clusters of pines. Refreshing Terrace Strange Peaks Guests in our tour From different viewing angles, the stones look like human beings, animals or other objects. When we reach the higher top at Lion Peak, you will see a most peculiar view-- a monkey is watching the sea on the mountain. Accordingly, it is given a different vivid name, Monkey Stone. Finally, our tour will go to an end. Walking back to the White Goose cable car station to take the downhill telpher to the foot of the mountain. Monkey Stone Flying Over Stone The Yellow Mountain Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety during the hiking. Monkeys in some areas of Yellow Mountain, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 4:00 PM–5:00 PMTransfer Back to Downtown Our tour will end at the mountain foot. Going back to Huangshan city will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Sea cloud on Yellow Mountain Price Include: Admission to Yellow Mountain. Shared-coach transportation between Huangshan City and Scenic Area. English-speaking local guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop off. Lunch. Yungu Cable Car ($12/PP*2 for round way) Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. The fairyland-like Huangshan national park occupying an area of 160.6 square kilometers. The Yellow Mountain is one of the most famous and beautiful mountainous areas in China. It was listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1990. The Yellow Mountains are not so called because the mountains are yellow, but because the area was renamed after the legendary Yellow Emperor (Huang Di) in 747 AD. Its spectacular natural scenery includes oddly-shaped pines and rocks, and mystical seas of cloud and hot springs, also they're called four wonders of Huangshan Mountain. In different seasons around a year the mountain has various and unique beauty, such as the wild spring flowers, specular summer waterfalls, colorful autumn leaves and white winter rime. Have a tour with us to hike the mountain and enjoy the wonderful view in Yellow Mountain! The fairyland-like Huangshan national park occupying an area of 160.6 square kilometers. The Yellow Mountain is one of the most famous and beautiful mountainous areas in China. It was listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1990. The Yellow Mountains are not so called because the mountains are yellow, but because the area was renamed after the legendary Yellow Emperor (Huang Di) in 747 AD. Its spectacular natural scenery includes oddly-shaped pines and rocks, and mystical seas of cloud and hot springs, also they're called four wonders of Huangshan Mountain. In different seasons around a year the mountain has various and unique beauty, such as the wild spring flowers, specular summer waterfalls, colorful autumn leaves and white winter rime. Have a tour with us to hike the mountain and enjoy the wonderful view in Yellow Mountain! Tour Highlights Ride the cableway up and down the mountain, saving your time for beauty viewing Take 4-hour mountain hiking tour with tour guide to get a full knowledge of Yellow Mountain. Have a chance to see glorious natural wonders, like sea of cloud in the mountain. Well-designed route to visit the essence of mountains in one day. • Ride the cableway up and down the mountain, saving your time for beauty viewing • Take 4-hour mountain hiking tour with tour guide to get a full knowledge of Yellow Mountain. • Have a chance to see glorious natural wonders, like sea of cloud in the mountain. • Well-designed route to visit the essence of mountains in one day. The Design of the Day Trip Small group tour make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! Guaranteed departure for a solo traveler. No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. The Design of the Day Trip • Small group tour make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. • A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! • Guaranteed departure for a solo traveler. No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:30 AM - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add: No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District, Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can get there by bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver " 您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AMTake Coach To Huangshan National Park After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to the Yellow Mountain by coach. It will take 1.5 hour to get to there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Huangshan on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial food in Huangshan, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and the Yellow Mountain, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting the Yellow Mountain is in a private small group. 10:00 AM –12:00 PMVisit the Yellow Mountain Arrive at Huangshan Scenic Area Transfer Center, you are arranged on shuttle bus riding to the Yungu cable station. Then, take the cable car (not included) up to the mountain. Upon arrival on the Beginning-to-Believe Peak, facing abyss at three sides and watching a pointed peak with a flower-like pine tree growing at its tip. Cable car Beginning-to-believe peak There are hundreds of rare pine trees in Huangshan. Scattered trees grow in adamant cracks, so they are one of the wonders of Yellow Mountain. We will also see a most remarkable pine tree is called Black Tiger Pine. After that, you can see many strange and odd-shapped rocks. These stones vary some something in life, some people, som animals, etc, like Penholder Peak (Bi Jia Feng), Meng Bi Sheng Hua. Black Tiger Pine Pine trees on the mountain Meng Bi Sheng Hua Our Guests in Huangshan 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMLunch Time There are some hotels and restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Stinky Mandarin Fish Good to Know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 1:00 PM – 4:00 PMContinue to Visit Other Highlights In the afternoon, we are going to see Shuguang Pavilion, Refreshing Terrace and get to the higher top at Lion Peak. Shuguang Pavilion is a great angle to shoot strange stones and peaks. From the pavillion, we will walk the ways stretching out of the cliffs to go Refreshing Terrace to enjoy the soaring peaks decorated with clusters of pines. Refreshing Terrace Strange Peaks Guests in our tour From different viewing angles, the stones look like human beings, animals or other objects. When we reach the higher top at Lion Peak, you will see a most peculiar view-- a monkey is watching the sea on the mountain. Accordingly, it is given a different vivid name, Monkey Stone. Finally, our tour will go to an end. Walking back to the White Goose cable car station to take the downhill telpher to the foot of the mountain. Monkey Stone Flying Over Stone The Yellow Mountain Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety during the hiking. Monkeys in some areas of Yellow Mountain, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 4:00 PM–5:00 PMTransfer Back to Downtown Our tour will end at the mountain foot. Going back to Huangshan city will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Sea cloud on Yellow Mountain Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:30 AM - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add: No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District, Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can get there by bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver " 您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AMTake Coach To Huangshan National Park After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to the Yellow Mountain by coach. It will take 1.5 hour to get to there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Huangshan on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial food in Huangshan, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and the Yellow Mountain, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting the Yellow Mountain is in a private small group. 10:00 AM –12:00 PMVisit the Yellow Mountain Arrive at Huangshan Scenic Area Transfer Center, you are arranged on shuttle bus riding to the Yungu cable station. Then, take the cable car (not included) up to the mountain. Upon arrival on the Beginning-to-Believe Peak, facing abyss at three sides and watching a pointed peak with a flower-like pine tree growing at its tip. Cable car Beginning-to-believe peak There are hundreds of rare pine trees in Huangshan. Scattered trees grow in adamant cracks, so they are one of the wonders of Yellow Mountain. We will also see a most remarkable pine tree is called Black Tiger Pine. After that, you can see many strange and odd-shapped rocks. These stones vary some something in life, some people, som animals, etc, like Penholder Peak (Bi Jia Feng), Meng Bi Sheng Hua. Black Tiger Pine Pine trees on the mountain Meng Bi Sheng Hua Our Guests in Huangshan 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMLunch Time There are some hotels and restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Stinky Mandarin Fish Good to Know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 1:00 PM – 4:00 PMContinue to Visit Other Highlights In the afternoon, we are going to see Shuguang Pavilion, Refreshing Terrace and get to the higher top at Lion Peak. Shuguang Pavilion is a great angle to shoot strange stones and peaks. From the pavillion, we will walk the ways stretching out of the cliffs to go Refreshing Terrace to enjoy the soaring peaks decorated with clusters of pines. Refreshing Terrace Strange Peaks Guests in our tour From different viewing angles, the stones look like human beings, animals or other objects. When we reach the higher top at Lion Peak, you will see a most peculiar view-- a monkey is watching the sea on the mountain. Accordingly, it is given a different vivid name, Monkey Stone. Finally, our tour will go to an end. Walking back to the White Goose cable car station to take the downhill telpher to the foot of the mountain. Monkey Stone Flying Over Stone The Yellow Mountain Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety during the hiking. Monkeys in some areas of Yellow Mountain, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 4:00 PM–5:00 PMTransfer Back to Downtown Our tour will end at the mountain foot. Going back to Huangshan city will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Sea cloud on Yellow Mountain The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:30 AM - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add: No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District, Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can get there by bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver " 您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 7:30 AM - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add: No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District, Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can get there by bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver " 您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add: No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District, Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel • How to get to the meeting point? You can get there by bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver " 您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AMTake Coach To Huangshan National Park After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to the Yellow Mountain by coach. It will take 1.5 hour to get to there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Huangshan on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial food in Huangshan, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and the Yellow Mountain, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting the Yellow Mountain is in a private small group. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AMTake Coach To Huangshan National Park After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to the Yellow Mountain by coach. It will take 1.5 hour to get to there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Huangshan on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial food in Huangshan, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and the Yellow Mountain, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting the Yellow Mountain is in a private small group. After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to the Yellow Mountain by coach. It will take 1.5 hour to get to there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Huangshan on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial food in Huangshan, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach • It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and the Yellow Mountain, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting the Yellow Mountain is in a private small group. 10:00 AM –12:00 PMVisit the Yellow Mountain Arrive at Huangshan Scenic Area Transfer Center, you are arranged on shuttle bus riding to the Yungu cable station. Then, take the cable car (not included) up to the mountain. Upon arrival on the Beginning-to-Believe Peak, facing abyss at three sides and watching a pointed peak with a flower-like pine tree growing at its tip. Cable car Beginning-to-believe peak There are hundreds of rare pine trees in Huangshan. Scattered trees grow in adamant cracks, so they are one of the wonders of Yellow Mountain. We will also see a most remarkable pine tree is called Black Tiger Pine. After that, you can see many strange and odd-shapped rocks. These stones vary some something in life, some people, som animals, etc, like Penholder Peak (Bi Jia Feng), Meng Bi Sheng Hua. Black Tiger Pine Pine trees on the mountain Meng Bi Sheng Hua Our Guests in Huangshan 10:00 AM –12:00 PMVisit the Yellow Mountain Arrive at Huangshan Scenic Area Transfer Center, you are arranged on shuttle bus riding to the Yungu cable station. Then, take the cable car (not included) up to the mountain. Upon arrival on the Beginning-to-Believe Peak, facing abyss at three sides and watching a pointed peak with a flower-like pine tree growing at its tip. Cable car Beginning-to-believe peak There are hundreds of rare pine trees in Huangshan. Scattered trees grow in adamant cracks, so they are one of the wonders of Yellow Mountain. We will also see a most remarkable pine tree is called Black Tiger Pine. After that, you can see many strange and odd-shapped rocks. These stones vary some something in life, some people, som animals, etc, like Penholder Peak (Bi Jia Feng), Meng Bi Sheng Hua. Black Tiger Pine Pine trees on the mountain Meng Bi Sheng Hua Our Guests in Huangshan Arrive at Huangshan Scenic Area Transfer Center, you are arranged on shuttle bus riding to the Yungu cable station. Then, take the cable car (not included) up to the mountain. Upon arrival on the Beginning-to-Believe Peak, facing abyss at three sides and watching a pointed peak with a flower-like pine tree growing at its tip. Beginning-to-believe peak There are hundreds of rare pine trees in Huangshan. Scattered trees grow in adamant cracks, so they are one of the wonders of Yellow Mountain. We will also see a most remarkable pine tree is called Black Tiger Pine. After that, you can see many strange and odd-shapped rocks. These stones vary some something in life, some people, som animals, etc, like Penholder Peak (Bi Jia Feng), Meng Bi Sheng Hua. Pine trees on the mountain Our Guests in Huangshan 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMLunch Time There are some hotels and restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Stinky Mandarin Fish Good to Know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMLunch Time There are some hotels and restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Stinky Mandarin Fish Good to Know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. There are some hotels and restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) • The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 1:00 PM – 4:00 PMContinue to Visit Other Highlights In the afternoon, we are going to see Shuguang Pavilion, Refreshing Terrace and get to the higher top at Lion Peak. Shuguang Pavilion is a great angle to shoot strange stones and peaks. From the pavillion, we will walk the ways stretching out of the cliffs to go Refreshing Terrace to enjoy the soaring peaks decorated with clusters of pines. Refreshing Terrace Strange Peaks Guests in our tour From different viewing angles, the stones look like human beings, animals or other objects. When we reach the higher top at Lion Peak, you will see a most peculiar view-- a monkey is watching the sea on the mountain. Accordingly, it is given a different vivid name, Monkey Stone. Finally, our tour will go to an end. Walking back to the White Goose cable car station to take the downhill telpher to the foot of the mountain. Monkey Stone Flying Over Stone The Yellow Mountain Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety during the hiking. Monkeys in some areas of Yellow Mountain, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 1:00 PM – 4:00 PMContinue to Visit Other Highlights In the afternoon, we are going to see Shuguang Pavilion, Refreshing Terrace and get to the higher top at Lion Peak. Shuguang Pavilion is a great angle to shoot strange stones and peaks. From the pavillion, we will walk the ways stretching out of the cliffs to go Refreshing Terrace to enjoy the soaring peaks decorated with clusters of pines. Refreshing Terrace Strange Peaks Guests in our tour From different viewing angles, the stones look like human beings, animals or other objects. When we reach the higher top at Lion Peak, you will see a most peculiar view-- a monkey is watching the sea on the mountain. Accordingly, it is given a different vivid name, Monkey Stone. Finally, our tour will go to an end. Walking back to the White Goose cable car station to take the downhill telpher to the foot of the mountain. Monkey Stone Flying Over Stone The Yellow Mountain Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety during the hiking. Monkeys in some areas of Yellow Mountain, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. In the afternoon, we are going to see Shuguang Pavilion, Refreshing Terrace and get to the higher top at Lion Peak. Shuguang Pavilion is a great angle to shoot strange stones and peaks. From the pavillion, we will walk the ways stretching out of the cliffs to go Refreshing Terrace to enjoy the soaring peaks decorated with clusters of pines. From different viewing angles, the stones look like human beings, animals or other objects. When we reach the higher top at Lion Peak, you will see a most peculiar view-- a monkey is watching the sea on the mountain. Accordingly, it is given a different vivid name, Monkey Stone. Finally, our tour will go to an end. Walking back to the White Goose cable car station to take the downhill telpher to the foot of the mountain. • There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety during the hiking. • Monkeys in some areas of Yellow Mountain, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 4:00 PM–5:00 PMTransfer Back to Downtown Our tour will end at the mountain foot. Going back to Huangshan city will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Sea cloud on Yellow Mountain 4:00 PM–5:00 PMTransfer Back to Downtown Our tour will end at the mountain foot. Going back to Huangshan city will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Sea cloud on Yellow Mountain Our tour will end at the mountain foot. Going back to Huangshan city will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Sea cloud on Yellow Mountain Price Include: Admission to Yellow Mountain. Shared-coach transportation between Huangshan City and Scenic Area. English-speaking local guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop off. Lunch. Yungu Cable Car ($12/PP*2 for round way) Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to Yellow Mountain. Shared-coach transportation between Huangshan City and Scenic Area. English-speaking local guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop off. Lunch. Yungu Cable Car ($12/PP*2 for round way) Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to Yellow Mountain. Shared-coach transportation between Huangshan City and Scenic Area. English-speaking local guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop off. Lunch. Yungu Cable Car ($12/PP*2 for round way) Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Admission to Yellow Mountain. • Shared-coach transportation between Huangshan City and Scenic Area. • English-speaking local guide service. • Bottled water. • Hotel pickup and drop off. • Lunch. • Yungu Cable Car ($12/PP*2 for round way) • Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 99 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 99 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 99 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20