ID: 429c4e5b75cf94e3
Title: Planning a 3-Day Tour of Guilin, Longsheng, and Yangshuo Highlights
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/guilin/article-3-day-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-07-08T00:00:00
================================================================================

You may have no clue about planning a 3-day holiday in Guilin and its attractive countryside, especially for a first visit. Read on for the following practical guide that will help you cover the must-sees in Guilin City, Yangshuo, and Longsheng without the stress. • Are Three Days Enough for a Guilin Trip? • Day One — Guilin City • Day Two — The Longji Terraced Fields in Longsheng County • Day Three — The Li River and Yangshuo County Are Three Days Enough for a Guilin Trip? Yes, but with smart planning! If you have 3 full days in Guilin (excluding arrival/departure time), it could be good to explore the city's highlights. A time-smart 3-day itinerary would be spending one day in Guilin City, one day in Yangshuo County, and one day in Longsheng County. However, it could be a bit tight if your 3-day plan includes arrival/departure days. We suggest skipping Guilin city and focusing on Yangshuo and Longsheng, cause they offer the most breathtaking landscapes and cultural authenticity. To include all the highlights, stretching to a 5-day itinerary (including arrival and departure days) is more reasonable. You could slow down and have a better chance to enjoy various experiences, such as Li River cruises, bamboo rafting, paddleboarding, and cave explorations. Of course, you can also break down the itinerary into a free combination of one-day tours. Check out How to Plan a Day Trip in Guilin. 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside Day One — Guilin City Stop 1: Daxu Ancient Town Daxu Ancient Town, Guilin "Daxu" in the Chinese language means "grand farmers market". Instead of a commercial attraction built for sightseeing, this is a market that truly serves the locals for trading and strolling around. There, you could not only buy fresh food and snacks, but could also feel like traveling back to its prosperous past by visiting 600-year-old buildings and the historic riverside pier to glimpse Guilin's trading heritage. Travel tips: It is recommended to arrive around 9 am after a 40-minute drive from the downtown area, when the morning market is busier. If you are lucky enough to encounter the Fair Day, which typically occurs on the date ending in 2, 5, 8, you would catch larger crowds and scale of the market. It is recommended to arrive around 9 am after a 40-minute drive from the downtown area, when the morning market is busier. If you are lucky enough to encounter the Fair Day, which typically occurs on the date ending in 2, 5, 8, you would catch larger crowds and scale of the market. Stop 2: Reed Flute Cave Reed Flute Cave in Guilin Erosional Caves are a must-see of Guilin's karst landform, and the Reed Flute Cave is our most recommended. This is a well-developed cave that could be easily visited for sightseeing, and a great place to escape the summer heat. Let your imagination run wild as colorful lights transform stalactites into "Crystal Palaces," "Lion Forests," and even a "Snowy Mountain." Locals gave these scenes auspicious names, expressing their best wishes to the people who come to visit the caves. Travel tips: There is a Seven-Star Cave located in Guilin's downtown area, which is similar to the Reed Flute Cave but less recommended. The Seven-Star Cave is less maintained and not much to see compared to the Reed Flute Cave. Plus, you would need to walk through the Seven-Star Park for about 20 minutes before getting into the cave. There is a Seven-Star Cave located in Guilin's downtown area, which is similar to the Reed Flute Cave but less recommended. The Seven-Star Cave is less maintained and not much to see compared to the Reed Flute Cave. Plus, you would need to walk through the Seven-Star Park for about 20 minutes before getting into the cave. Stop 3: Elephant Trunk Hill Elephant Trunk Hill, Guilin This is the most iconic landmark of Guilin that shaped like a 55-meter-tall elephant drinking from the Li River. You could take an iconic photo from the viewpoint, and have a panoramic view after climbing to the top of the Elephant Trunk Hill under the Puxian Tower. Travel tips: As a popular attraction that is free of admission, you would need to deal with crowds of both travelers and locals. For a quiet experience, you could visit a nearby hotel's rooftop lounge to sip a cocktail while overlooking the hill. As a popular attraction that is free of admission, you would need to deal with crowds of both travelers and locals. For a quiet experience, you could visit a nearby hotel's rooftop lounge to sip a cocktail while overlooking the hill. Stop 4: Sun and Moon Pagodas Sun and Moon Pagodas, Guilin These pagodas are just normal-looking during the day, while they show their true beauty with lights up after 7 pm. You could easily find the pagodas standing in the middle of Shan Lake, after walking north along the Binjiang Road from the Elephant Trunk Hill for about 10 minutes. Travel tips: You can choose to climb the tower to view the city scenery of Guilin, but we recommend that you get a social media shot at the Zhiyintai viewpoint, without wasting your precious time queuing up to climb the tower. You can choose to climb the tower to view the city scenery of Guilin, but we recommend that you get a social media shot at the Zhiyintai viewpoint, without wasting your precious time queuing up to climb the tower. Stop 5: The East-West Alley The East-West Alley was freshly renovated in 2016, showing the style of the late Qing Dynasty. It is one of the landmarks of Guilin City, popular as a commercial and historic center. Savor local snacks such as Yangshuo Pine-nut Candy and osmanthus cakes, or fill your belly at a decent restaurant for local specialities. During your stay in Guilin, here are two areas that should suit you most: Hotels in the Downtown Area Lijiang Waterfall Hotel in Guilin • Advantages: Excellent transportation links, modern facilities, vibrant nightlife, and adjacent to attractions like Elephant Trunk Hill and Zhengyang Pedestrian Street. • Disadvantages: Could be noisier and more expensive. • Recommendations: Lijiang Waterfall Hotel (famous for its artificial waterfall), The Sheraton (luxurious stay with city views), and Atour Hotel (modern and budget-friendly). Hotels along the Li River The White House in Guilin • Advantages: Stunning river views, affordable local food, a peaceful environment, and a closer connection to nature and local culture. • Disadvantages: More humid air and a slightly remote location. • Recommendations: Guilin Shangri-La Hotel (luxurious riverside stay), The White House (charming boutique hotel), and Grand Bravo Guilin (mid-range with scenic views). 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery The Landscape in Painting 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery The Landscape in Painting 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery The Landscape in Painting Day Two — The Longji Rice Terraces in Longsheng County Around 2 hours driving from Guilin, you would arrive at Longji Rice Terraces, an agricultural wonder built by smart ancient farmers. This area can be divided into three main stops: Ping'an Village, Dazhai Village, and Ancient Zhuang Village. Among them, Ping'an Village is our most recommended. The best times to visit Longji Rice Terraces are from May to mid-June (mirror-like terraces after water-filled in spring) and from late September to mid-October (harvest views of golden ripe paddy). Stop 1: Ping'an Village Although the Ping'an Rice Terraces are smaller than the Jinkeng Rice Terraces, they are also very beautiful and offer a quieter experience. Hiking is the best way to explore the beauty of Ping'an Rice Terraces, allowing you to connect with nature. It would be a 2-hour hike. Along your way to its famous landscape, the Seven Stars with the Moon and the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers, marvel at the awe-inspiring natural beauty of the terraces and traditional wooden houses of ethnic minorities. Notice: This attraction inevitably requires a certain intensity of hiking, and it is not recommended for people with limited mobility or the elderly to travel here. If you don't wanna hike, visit Dazhai Village. The Jinkeng Terraced Fields in Dazhai Village are the largest and most magnificent. You can take a cable car directly to the Jinfoding Viewing Platform. This is the highest spot in Jinkeng Terraced Fields, and is the best place to admire the sunrise and sunset. Accordingly, the Jinkeng Terraced Fields are very popular with Chinese tourists, and the prices of hotels and food in Dazhai Village are slightly higher. This attraction inevitably requires a certain intensity of hiking, and it is not recommended for people with limited mobility or the elderly to travel here. If you don't wanna hike, visit Dazhai Village. The Jinkeng Terraced Fields in Dazhai Village are the largest and most magnificent. You can take a cable car directly to the Jinfoding Viewing Platform. This is the highest spot in Jinkeng Terraced Fields, and is the best place to admire the sunrise and sunset. Accordingly, the Jinkeng Terraced Fields are very popular with Chinese tourists, and the prices of hotels and food in Dazhai Village are slightly higher. Stop 2: Ancient Zhuang Village Ancient Zhuang Village This is the most ethnic and historical village, and it is also the earliest developed village in Longji Rice Terraces. In the past, you could see Zhuang songs and dances and folk culture performances here, but now it is only visited as part of the Ping'an Village hiking route. For history enthusiasts, you could visit the Folk Museum to delve into the history of the terraces and the ethnic minorities' culture. Optional stop: Longji Gorge Rafting Most people come to Longji Terraced Fields for a day trip with sightseeing and hiking, but easily miss out on the funniest way to beat the summer heat. If you finish your hike early or decide to stay overnight in Longsheng, try a thrilling gorge rafting adventure to cool off in the summer. Take a minibus for 30 minutes from the foot of the mountain to the rafting spot on the mountainside, hop on the rubber boat, and let the crystal-clear stream carry you downstream, splashing through the water while soaking in the stunning natural surroundings. Optional stop: Longji Gorge Rafting Most people come to Longji Terraced Fields for a day trip with sightseeing and hiking, but easily miss out on the funniest way to beat the summer heat. If you finish your hike early or decide to stay overnight in Longsheng, try a thrilling gorge rafting adventure to cool off in the summer. Take a minibus for 30 minutes from the foot of the mountain to the rafting spot on the mountainside, hop on the rubber boat, and let the crystal-clear stream carry you downstream, splashing through the water while soaking in the stunning natural surroundings. Baike Hotel in Ping'an Village, Longsheng, Guilin With limited travel time, we suggest returning to Guilin after visiting Longsheng instead of staying overnight, not to mention that the hotel choices in Longsheng are rather poor. Most hotels in Longsheng do not serve Western-style food due to limited supplies. Additionally, some hotels may only offer Chinese language services. For photography enthusiasts or those who particularly want to witness the sunrise over the rice terraces, we recommend staying in Ping'an or Dazhai areas, such as Baike Boutique Hotel (charming with stunning views), Li-An Lodge (luxurious and cozy), and Longji Panorama House Hotel (serene and budget-friendly). Day Three — The Li River and Yangshuo County Stop 1: Li River Cruise For maximum comfort and minimal weather impact, we suggest taking a 4-star Li River Cruise to enjoy the karst landscape leisurely. The cruise usually takes about 4 hours, sails from 9 am to 1 pm, and you would share it with 80 tourists at most. Typically, your private guide would board the cruise with you to introduce the attractions along the trip. To keep you from getting bored, you would have the opportunity to listen to the stories of the locals who struggled for the good life today, making Guilin a world-class tourist destination step by step. Cycle Around the Yangshuo Countryside, Guilin After the cruise ship docks, you could start your 3-hour exploration at Yangshuo County before driving back to Guilin City. Stroll through the bustling West Street, bike through the fields, and observe farmers and water buffaloes working in the fields, and witness the impact of rural revitalization in China. If your visit falls in shoulder season, you may have the chance to relax by a bamboo raft ride on the Yulong River, or climb to the top of Xianggong Mountain for a spectacular sunset view. Travel hacks: You could opt for a private car from Guilin to Yangshuo, which takes only 2 hours and allows you to maximize your time exploring, without worrying about waiting in lines to waste your time. If you have extra time, we suggest staying in Yangshuo for one night and return to the city or go to the airport the next day. This will give you more flexibility and allow you to get up early to experience the quiet rural atmosphere of Yangshuo. Despite being a small county, Yangshuo offers thousands of hotels and homestays to suit every need. You are likely to stay in one of the following areas, with the Shili Gallery being our top recommendation. Hotels in the Shili Gallery Area: Top Recommendation Have a Riverside Dinner at Yangshuo Mountain Retreat, Guilin • Advantages: Stunning landscapes, tranquil surroundings, fresh air, and ideal for exploring the countryside on scooters. • Disadvantages: Higher costs compared to other areas, fewer restaurant options, and narrow access roads. • Recommendations: Yangshuo Mountain Retreat (serene escape with panoramic views), Indape Into Landscape (neo-Chinese and holiday style), and Yangshuo Riverside Resort Hotel (luxurious and scenic). Hotels in the West Street Area • Advantages: Convenient transportation, vibrant nightlife, bustling streets, and more options for hotels and restaurants. • Disadvantages: More popular with tourists, crowded, and noisy until late at night. • Recommendations: Yangshuo Lisa's Hotel (cozy and central), Lijing Resort (modern with mountain views), and Shixi Landscape Hotel (charming and well-located). Hotels in the Xingping Ancient Town Area • Advantages: Beautiful Li River scenery, close to niche photography spots, near Yangshuo Railway Station, and moderately touristy. • Disadvantages: The newly built "ancient town" lacks authenticity, and it's remote from most popular attractions. • Recommendations: Yangshuo Xingping Island Resort (peaceful and idyllic), Hilton Garden Inn Guilin Yangshuo (luxurious and convenient), Yangshuo Xingping Misty Wonderland (zen style and scenic), and Yangshuo XY YunHouse (stylish and unique). In addition to the hotels in the areas mentioned above, Yangshuo is home to several exceptional properties with unique design styles and fascinating stories, such as Banyan Tree Yangshuo, Yangshuo Sugar House, and more. While these hotels may be a bit farther from the main attractions, they offer quieter environments, top-notch services, and unforgettable living experiences that are well worth the journey. 5-Day Guilin Off-the-Beaten-Path TourFind the Hidden Paintings in "God's Gallery" 5-Day Guilin Off-the-Beaten-Path TourFind the Hidden Paintings in "God's Gallery" 5-Day Guilin Off-the-Beaten-Path TourFind the Hidden Paintings in "God's Gallery" Travel With China Highlights Still have no clue about planning a Guilin tour? Let us lend you a hand. Our tours are designed based on well over decades of experience and feedback from our clients. Feel free to customize the sample tour to your requirements, and we will do our best to meet your needs. Reach out to us now to start your journey.