ID: 49ffc0bb4fb17a0f
Title: Half-Day Private Shanghai Zhujiajiao Water Town Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/shanghai/half-day-private-zhujiajiao-watertown-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Zhujiajiao Ancient Water Town is located in Qingpu district of Shanghai, with a history of more than 1,700 years. It is the best-preserved among the four ancient towns in Shanghai. The little fan-shaped town is also known as "pearl stream", endowed with beautiful waterways, ancient bridges built during Ming and Qing Dynasties, and traditional Chinese-style residences. Zhujiajiao is a nice destination to contrast with high-rise modern Shanghai. Take a sculling boat through the water village in your private tour, get into a brand-new world full of relaxation and peacefulness and forget the bustle and hustle of the modern big city. Tour Highlights Experience the nearest Zhujiajiao water town from Shanghai city with your private tour guide. Take a traditional sculling boat on the river to view the beauty of the town. Well-designed route to visit the town with carefully-selected places to get the essence of Zhujiajiao. VIP private tour with no other participants, no shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English skills Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will confirm the pick-up time (normally at 9 AM) for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AM - 10:00 AMHotel Pick-Up and Journey to Zhujiajiao Water Town On the morning of your tour, your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby at 9:00 AM. It will take 1 hour to transfer you and your guide to Zhujiajiao water town, regarded as the best representative example of Yangtze River Delta lifestyle and architecture. Your private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Shangshan and Zhujiajiao on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial dishes, etc. Your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 10:00 AM – 12:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola with our guide on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Our guests in a boat Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge Guests on the bridge 12:00 PM - 1:00 PMLunch at a local restaurant (Not Included) There are many special snacks and dishes in Zhujiajiao water town. Or you can taste some specialtiests in a riverside restaurant and enjoy a delicious lunch with a beautuful environment. (Lunch fee is not included in the pricing.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi Enjoy lunch in a riverside restaurant 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMTransport to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. Going back to downtown Shanghai will normally take about 1 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, we are more than happy to help you arrange it. Please let us know. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Zhujiajiao watertown Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Boat ride in Zhujiajiao. Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the middle ring road of Shanghai). Private English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. The hotel pick-up and drop-off area What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Zhujiajiao Ancient Water Town is located in Qingpu district of Shanghai, with a history of more than 1,700 years. It is the best-preserved among the four ancient towns in Shanghai. The little fan-shaped town is also known as "pearl stream", endowed with beautiful waterways, ancient bridges built during Ming and Qing Dynasties, and traditional Chinese-style residences. Zhujiajiao is a nice destination to contrast with high-rise modern Shanghai. Take a sculling boat through the water village in your private tour, get into a brand-new world full of relaxation and peacefulness and forget the bustle and hustle of the modern big city. Zhujiajiao Ancient Water Town is located in Qingpu district of Shanghai, with a history of more than 1,700 years. It is the best-preserved among the four ancient towns in Shanghai. The little fan-shaped town is also known as "pearl stream", endowed with beautiful waterways, ancient bridges built during Ming and Qing Dynasties, and traditional Chinese-style residences. Zhujiajiao is a nice destination to contrast with high-rise modern Shanghai. Take a sculling boat through the water village in your private tour, get into a brand-new world full of relaxation and peacefulness and forget the bustle and hustle of the modern big city. Tour Highlights Experience the nearest Zhujiajiao water town from Shanghai city with your private tour guide. Take a traditional sculling boat on the river to view the beauty of the town. Well-designed route to visit the town with carefully-selected places to get the essence of Zhujiajiao. VIP private tour with no other participants, no shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. • Experience the nearest Zhujiajiao water town from Shanghai city with your private tour guide. • Take a traditional sculling boat on the river to view the beauty of the town. • Well-designed route to visit the town with carefully-selected places to get the essence of Zhujiajiao. • VIP private tour with no other participants, no shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English skills Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. The Design of the Day Trip • Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English skills • Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience • Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space • Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will confirm the pick-up time (normally at 9 AM) for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AM - 10:00 AMHotel Pick-Up and Journey to Zhujiajiao Water Town On the morning of your tour, your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby at 9:00 AM. It will take 1 hour to transfer you and your guide to Zhujiajiao water town, regarded as the best representative example of Yangtze River Delta lifestyle and architecture. Your private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Shangshan and Zhujiajiao on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial dishes, etc. Your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 10:00 AM – 12:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola with our guide on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Our guests in a boat Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge Guests on the bridge 12:00 PM - 1:00 PMLunch at a local restaurant (Not Included) There are many special snacks and dishes in Zhujiajiao water town. Or you can taste some specialtiests in a riverside restaurant and enjoy a delicious lunch with a beautuful environment. (Lunch fee is not included in the pricing.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi Enjoy lunch in a riverside restaurant 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMTransport to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. Going back to downtown Shanghai will normally take about 1 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, we are more than happy to help you arrange it. Please let us know. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Zhujiajiao watertown Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will confirm the pick-up time (normally at 9 AM) for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AM - 10:00 AMHotel Pick-Up and Journey to Zhujiajiao Water Town On the morning of your tour, your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby at 9:00 AM. It will take 1 hour to transfer you and your guide to Zhujiajiao water town, regarded as the best representative example of Yangtze River Delta lifestyle and architecture. Your private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Shangshan and Zhujiajiao on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial dishes, etc. Your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 10:00 AM – 12:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola with our guide on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Our guests in a boat Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge Guests on the bridge 12:00 PM - 1:00 PMLunch at a local restaurant (Not Included) There are many special snacks and dishes in Zhujiajiao water town. Or you can taste some specialtiests in a riverside restaurant and enjoy a delicious lunch with a beautuful environment. (Lunch fee is not included in the pricing.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi Enjoy lunch in a riverside restaurant 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMTransport to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. Going back to downtown Shanghai will normally take about 1 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, we are more than happy to help you arrange it. Please let us know. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Zhujiajiao watertown The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will confirm the pick-up time (normally at 9 AM) for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will confirm the pick-up time (normally at 9 AM) for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will confirm the pick-up time (normally at 9 AM) for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AM - 10:00 AMHotel Pick-Up and Journey to Zhujiajiao Water Town On the morning of your tour, your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby at 9:00 AM. It will take 1 hour to transfer you and your guide to Zhujiajiao water town, regarded as the best representative example of Yangtze River Delta lifestyle and architecture. Your private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Shangshan and Zhujiajiao on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial dishes, etc. Your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 9:00 AM - 10:00 AMHotel Pick-Up and Journey to Zhujiajiao Water Town On the morning of your tour, your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby at 9:00 AM. It will take 1 hour to transfer you and your guide to Zhujiajiao water town, regarded as the best representative example of Yangtze River Delta lifestyle and architecture. Your private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Shangshan and Zhujiajiao on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial dishes, etc. Your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. On the morning of your tour, your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby at 9:00 AM. It will take 1 hour to transfer you and your guide to Zhujiajiao water town, regarded as the best representative example of Yangtze River Delta lifestyle and architecture. Your private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Shangshan and Zhujiajiao on the way, like attractions, local life style, sepcial dishes, etc. Your guide will be waiting for you in the lobby • The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. • Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 10:00 AM – 12:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola with our guide on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Our guests in a boat Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge Guests on the bridge 10:00 AM – 12:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola with our guide on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Our guests in a boat Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge Guests on the bridge In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola with our guide on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Many boats on the river Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. 12:00 PM - 1:00 PMLunch at a local restaurant (Not Included) There are many special snacks and dishes in Zhujiajiao water town. Or you can taste some specialtiests in a riverside restaurant and enjoy a delicious lunch with a beautuful environment. (Lunch fee is not included in the pricing.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi Enjoy lunch in a riverside restaurant 12:00 PM - 1:00 PMLunch at a local restaurant (Not Included) There are many special snacks and dishes in Zhujiajiao water town. Or you can taste some specialtiests in a riverside restaurant and enjoy a delicious lunch with a beautuful environment. (Lunch fee is not included in the pricing.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi Enjoy lunch in a riverside restaurant There are many special snacks and dishes in Zhujiajiao water town. Or you can taste some specialtiests in a riverside restaurant and enjoy a delicious lunch with a beautuful environment. (Lunch fee is not included in the pricing.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi Enjoy lunch in a riverside restaurant 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMTransport to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. Going back to downtown Shanghai will normally take about 1 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, we are more than happy to help you arrange it. Please let us know. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Zhujiajiao watertown 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMTransport to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. Going back to downtown Shanghai will normally take about 1 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, we are more than happy to help you arrange it. Please let us know. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Zhujiajiao watertown We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. Going back to downtown Shanghai will normally take about 1 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, we are more than happy to help you arrange it. Please let us know. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Boat ride in Zhujiajiao. Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the middle ring road of Shanghai). Private English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Boat ride in Zhujiajiao. Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the middle ring road of Shanghai). Private English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Boat ride in Zhujiajiao. Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the middle ring road of Shanghai). Private English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). • Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. • Boat ride in Zhujiajiao. • Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the middle ring road of Shanghai). • Private English-speaking local guide. • Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). • Personal expenses. • Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. The hotel pick-up and drop-off area What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. The hotel pick-up and drop-off area What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. The hotel pick-up and drop-off area The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. The hotel pick-up and drop-off area What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 143 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 143 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 143 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20