ID: 395bdf027bf37bd7
Title: One-Day Guilin City Highlights Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/guilin/one-day-guilin-city-highlights-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Explore the unique charm of Guilin with our professional local guide during this day trip. Walk along the peaceful pathways in an ancient village, feeling the atmosphere of rural life stretching back to imperial times, and experience Guilin traditional cultures and folk arts in a beautiful village nearby a tributary of the Li River, discover the secret recipe of the locals' favorite daily dishes. Taste this city's atmosphere, admire the splendid "natural art" in Reed Flute Cave, and walk along the banks of the scenic Two Rivers and Four Lakes water system. During this day trip, you'll witness the unique city of Guilin. Tour Highlights Explore a local ancient village, which has a history of more than 1,000 years. Few people have previously traveled to this village, which helps you discover the traditional Chinese residential lifestyle and culture. Experience Guilin traditional cultures and folk arts and taste some locals' favorite daily dishes in a beautiful village nearby a tributary of the Li River. Admire the natural masterpieces of the beautiful stalactites in Reed Flute Cave. Wander in the streets adjacent to the city's beautiful water system - the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. Experience the unique charm of this city. The Design of the Day Trip Explore the city as a local with insider recommendations. There is no shopping, there are no tricks, and no queueing to endure. Ten participants take part in this mini group tour. Discover a better way to explore and experience the celebrated city of Guilin. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call from your tour guide before 9:30pm to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to the Ancient Village of Xiongcun Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually between 8am and 8:30am. The tour guide will hold a Trippest bannerso that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - the ancient village of Xiongcun. It takes about 40 minutes (20 kilometers) to get there from Guilin city center. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Details about Your Transport: The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 9:30 AM – 11:00 AM Visit the Ancient Village of Xiongcun After a 40-minute drive, you will arrive at a peaceful ancient village called Xiongcun. This village has a history of more than 1,000 years. Xiongcun Village Xiongcun Village It was a very busy town in the past but its popularity faded as time went by. The original prosperity has been replaced with old houses, mossy stone steps, and elderly villagers who retell the village's ancient stories. Xiongcun Village A local house in Xiongcun In this village, you'll see the well-kept traditional Chinese residential culture. You'll have the chance to visit a local family's home and experience their peaceful lifestyle. Witnessing the lifestyle of the villagers will make you feel as though you have traveled back in time by several hundred years. An old lady was making Zongzi Leisure time An Authentic Ancient Village There is an ancient town nearby called Daxu Ancient Town. Compared with Xiongcun, Daxu is more touristic and commercialized. Xiongcun, on the other hand, is more original and fewer people have traveled there. You'll enjoy a more authentic experience there. 11:00 AM – 1:30 PM Visit Dong Li Ancient Village After 20-minute driving from Daxu, you'll arrive at a rebuilt village name Dong Li Ancient Village. It is near the mountains and nearby an important tributary (Chao Tian River) of the Li River. This village preserves the old dwellings style of Northen Guangxi. You may also see many handicrafts here, like pressing old with a flying hammer, weaving cotton cloth, forging iron, making wine, etc. As the city develops, some of handicrafts are dying out. Fortunately, these intangible cultural heritages are protected and inherited here. You can try one of handicrafts which is free. But if you want to do more deep experiences like potting, making dried bean milk cream, tie-dyed fabric, ect, that would be optional and pay on your own expense. Feel free to ask the tour guide if you have any questions. Have a lunch (at your own expense) at a local restaurant here. You'll have a chance to taste some locals' favorite daily dishes. A wooden bridge The local house Local handicrafts 2:30 PM – 4:30 PM Visit the Natural Art Museum of Reed Flute Cave Having tasted the delicious lunch, you will head for the most famous cave in Guilin - Reed Flute Cave. It is called a "natural art museum" due to the numerous beautiful stalactites and stalagmites inside it. Decorated with colorful spotlights and with intriguing shadows cast across the cave's small pool, it's as though you are looking at a beautiful Chinese painting. A karst cave on such a great scale as this and with such beautiful natural formations is a rare natural phenomenon in the world. Now Reed Flute Cave has become a calling card of Guilin. More than 180 international heads of state and politicians have visited this cave, including two former presidents of the United States, Nixon and Carter. Reed Flute Cave Reed Flute Cave Avoid the Queue As VIP guests, our tour group will go to another entrance to skip the queue while other groups will have to remain in the queue for quite a long time. 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM Walk Around the City's Water System - Two Rivers and Four Lakes After visiting Reed Flute Cave, you'll be driven to the city center where you can enjoy a walk around the city's water system - Two Rivers and Four Lakes. The two rivers in the name relate to Guilin's two major rivers running through the city: the Li River and the Peach Blossom River. The four lakes in the name refer to the four major lakes in the city: Ronghu (Banyan Lake), Shahu (Chinese Fir Lake), Guihu (Osmanthus Lake), and Mulonghu (Wood Dragon Lake). These rivers and lakes are linked together in a circuit. Your walk will begin at Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate'), which used to be the south gate of Guilin during the Tang Dynasty in about 700 AD. Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate') Near the gate stands a 1,000-year-old banyan tree, which reflects the history of this city. In front of it is Banyan Lake - walk alongside it to discover ancient bridges in many different styles. Banyan Lake After you walk around Ronghu, you'll come to another lake named Shahu, which has twin towers standing in it. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers are landmarks of Guilin. The Sun Tower is the largest bronze Buddhist tower in the world. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers Continue onward to reach the most beautiful street in Guilin - Binjiang Road. The road runs alongside the Li River and you'll see the aptly named Elephant Trunk Hill, which appears to be an elephant drinking the river. Along the roadside, which is decorated with banyan trees, you'll see many street artists playing music and singing about this beautiful city. Binjiang Road Your final stop is Lijiang Waterfall Hotel, which is home to the largest man-made waterfall in the world. Your wonderful trip ends here. You can choose to continue walking in the nearby area (Zhengyang Pedestrian Street and the food market are only a few steps away) or you can be driven back to your hotel. Recommended Nighttime Activity The water system of Two Rivers and Four Lakes looks even more beautiful at night when it is decorated by the many city lights. Cruise boats run through the water system, departing between 8pm and 10pm. Each trip takes about 90 minutes and costs about 220 yuan. If you want to take this nighttime cruise, please ask your guide to book it for you. Cruise boats run through the water system Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Know Before You Book Price Includes: Admission to Reed Flute Cave and Li Water Family Scenic Area. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. A walking trip to the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. Price Excludes: Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Cruise boat ticket for night activity. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Important Notes: Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. This trip is NOT opened during the China National Day golden week from Oct. 1st to Oct. 7th. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com Explore the unique charm of Guilin with our professional local guide during this day trip. Walk along the peaceful pathways in an ancient village, feeling the atmosphere of rural life stretching back to imperial times, and experience Guilin traditional cultures and folk arts in a beautiful village nearby a tributary of the Li River, discover the secret recipe of the locals' favorite daily dishes. Taste this city's atmosphere, admire the splendid "natural art" in Reed Flute Cave, and walk along the banks of the scenic Two Rivers and Four Lakes water system. During this day trip, you'll witness the unique city of Guilin. Explore the unique charm of Guilin with our professional local guide during this day trip. Walk along the peaceful pathways in an ancient village, feeling the atmosphere of rural life stretching back to imperial times, and experience Guilin traditional cultures and folk arts in a beautiful village nearby a tributary of the Li River, discover the secret recipe of the locals' favorite daily dishes. Taste this city's atmosphere, admire the splendid "natural art" in Reed Flute Cave, and walk along the banks of the scenic Two Rivers and Four Lakes water system. During this day trip, you'll witness the unique city of Guilin. Tour Highlights Explore a local ancient village, which has a history of more than 1,000 years. Few people have previously traveled to this village, which helps you discover the traditional Chinese residential lifestyle and culture. Experience Guilin traditional cultures and folk arts and taste some locals' favorite daily dishes in a beautiful village nearby a tributary of the Li River. Admire the natural masterpieces of the beautiful stalactites in Reed Flute Cave. Wander in the streets adjacent to the city's beautiful water system - the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. Experience the unique charm of this city. • Explore a local ancient village, which has a history of more than 1,000 years. Few people have previously traveled to this village, which helps you discover the traditional Chinese residential lifestyle and culture. • Experience Guilin traditional cultures and folk arts and taste some locals' favorite daily dishes in a beautiful village nearby a tributary of the Li River. • Admire the natural masterpieces of the beautiful stalactites in Reed Flute Cave. • Wander in the streets adjacent to the city's beautiful water system - the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. Experience the unique charm of this city. The Design of the Day Trip Explore the city as a local with insider recommendations. There is no shopping, there are no tricks, and no queueing to endure. Ten participants take part in this mini group tour. Discover a better way to explore and experience the celebrated city of Guilin. The Design of the Day Trip • Explore the city as a local with insider recommendations. • There is no shopping, there are no tricks, and no queueing to endure. Ten participants take part in this mini group tour. • Discover a better way to explore and experience the celebrated city of Guilin. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call from your tour guide before 9:30pm to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to the Ancient Village of Xiongcun Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually between 8am and 8:30am. The tour guide will hold a Trippest bannerso that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - the ancient village of Xiongcun. It takes about 40 minutes (20 kilometers) to get there from Guilin city center. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Details about Your Transport: The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 9:30 AM – 11:00 AM Visit the Ancient Village of Xiongcun After a 40-minute drive, you will arrive at a peaceful ancient village called Xiongcun. This village has a history of more than 1,000 years. Xiongcun Village Xiongcun Village It was a very busy town in the past but its popularity faded as time went by. The original prosperity has been replaced with old houses, mossy stone steps, and elderly villagers who retell the village's ancient stories. Xiongcun Village A local house in Xiongcun In this village, you'll see the well-kept traditional Chinese residential culture. You'll have the chance to visit a local family's home and experience their peaceful lifestyle. Witnessing the lifestyle of the villagers will make you feel as though you have traveled back in time by several hundred years. An old lady was making Zongzi Leisure time An Authentic Ancient Village There is an ancient town nearby called Daxu Ancient Town. Compared with Xiongcun, Daxu is more touristic and commercialized. Xiongcun, on the other hand, is more original and fewer people have traveled there. You'll enjoy a more authentic experience there. 11:00 AM – 1:30 PM Visit Dong Li Ancient Village After 20-minute driving from Daxu, you'll arrive at a rebuilt village name Dong Li Ancient Village. It is near the mountains and nearby an important tributary (Chao Tian River) of the Li River. This village preserves the old dwellings style of Northen Guangxi. You may also see many handicrafts here, like pressing old with a flying hammer, weaving cotton cloth, forging iron, making wine, etc. As the city develops, some of handicrafts are dying out. Fortunately, these intangible cultural heritages are protected and inherited here. You can try one of handicrafts which is free. But if you want to do more deep experiences like potting, making dried bean milk cream, tie-dyed fabric, ect, that would be optional and pay on your own expense. Feel free to ask the tour guide if you have any questions. Have a lunch (at your own expense) at a local restaurant here. You'll have a chance to taste some locals' favorite daily dishes. A wooden bridge The local house Local handicrafts 2:30 PM – 4:30 PM Visit the Natural Art Museum of Reed Flute Cave Having tasted the delicious lunch, you will head for the most famous cave in Guilin - Reed Flute Cave. It is called a "natural art museum" due to the numerous beautiful stalactites and stalagmites inside it. Decorated with colorful spotlights and with intriguing shadows cast across the cave's small pool, it's as though you are looking at a beautiful Chinese painting. A karst cave on such a great scale as this and with such beautiful natural formations is a rare natural phenomenon in the world. Now Reed Flute Cave has become a calling card of Guilin. More than 180 international heads of state and politicians have visited this cave, including two former presidents of the United States, Nixon and Carter. Reed Flute Cave Reed Flute Cave Avoid the Queue As VIP guests, our tour group will go to another entrance to skip the queue while other groups will have to remain in the queue for quite a long time. 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM Walk Around the City's Water System - Two Rivers and Four Lakes After visiting Reed Flute Cave, you'll be driven to the city center where you can enjoy a walk around the city's water system - Two Rivers and Four Lakes. The two rivers in the name relate to Guilin's two major rivers running through the city: the Li River and the Peach Blossom River. The four lakes in the name refer to the four major lakes in the city: Ronghu (Banyan Lake), Shahu (Chinese Fir Lake), Guihu (Osmanthus Lake), and Mulonghu (Wood Dragon Lake). These rivers and lakes are linked together in a circuit. Your walk will begin at Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate'), which used to be the south gate of Guilin during the Tang Dynasty in about 700 AD. Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate') Near the gate stands a 1,000-year-old banyan tree, which reflects the history of this city. In front of it is Banyan Lake - walk alongside it to discover ancient bridges in many different styles. Banyan Lake After you walk around Ronghu, you'll come to another lake named Shahu, which has twin towers standing in it. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers are landmarks of Guilin. The Sun Tower is the largest bronze Buddhist tower in the world. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers Continue onward to reach the most beautiful street in Guilin - Binjiang Road. The road runs alongside the Li River and you'll see the aptly named Elephant Trunk Hill, which appears to be an elephant drinking the river. Along the roadside, which is decorated with banyan trees, you'll see many street artists playing music and singing about this beautiful city. Binjiang Road Your final stop is Lijiang Waterfall Hotel, which is home to the largest man-made waterfall in the world. Your wonderful trip ends here. You can choose to continue walking in the nearby area (Zhengyang Pedestrian Street and the food market are only a few steps away) or you can be driven back to your hotel. Recommended Nighttime Activity The water system of Two Rivers and Four Lakes looks even more beautiful at night when it is decorated by the many city lights. Cruise boats run through the water system, departing between 8pm and 10pm. Each trip takes about 90 minutes and costs about 220 yuan. If you want to take this nighttime cruise, please ask your guide to book it for you. Cruise boats run through the water system Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call from your tour guide before 9:30pm to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to the Ancient Village of Xiongcun Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually between 8am and 8:30am. The tour guide will hold a Trippest bannerso that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - the ancient village of Xiongcun. It takes about 40 minutes (20 kilometers) to get there from Guilin city center. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Details about Your Transport: The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 9:30 AM – 11:00 AM Visit the Ancient Village of Xiongcun After a 40-minute drive, you will arrive at a peaceful ancient village called Xiongcun. This village has a history of more than 1,000 years. Xiongcun Village Xiongcun Village It was a very busy town in the past but its popularity faded as time went by. The original prosperity has been replaced with old houses, mossy stone steps, and elderly villagers who retell the village's ancient stories. Xiongcun Village A local house in Xiongcun In this village, you'll see the well-kept traditional Chinese residential culture. You'll have the chance to visit a local family's home and experience their peaceful lifestyle. Witnessing the lifestyle of the villagers will make you feel as though you have traveled back in time by several hundred years. An old lady was making Zongzi Leisure time An Authentic Ancient Village There is an ancient town nearby called Daxu Ancient Town. Compared with Xiongcun, Daxu is more touristic and commercialized. Xiongcun, on the other hand, is more original and fewer people have traveled there. You'll enjoy a more authentic experience there. 11:00 AM – 1:30 PM Visit Dong Li Ancient Village After 20-minute driving from Daxu, you'll arrive at a rebuilt village name Dong Li Ancient Village. It is near the mountains and nearby an important tributary (Chao Tian River) of the Li River. This village preserves the old dwellings style of Northen Guangxi. You may also see many handicrafts here, like pressing old with a flying hammer, weaving cotton cloth, forging iron, making wine, etc. As the city develops, some of handicrafts are dying out. Fortunately, these intangible cultural heritages are protected and inherited here. You can try one of handicrafts which is free. But if you want to do more deep experiences like potting, making dried bean milk cream, tie-dyed fabric, ect, that would be optional and pay on your own expense. Feel free to ask the tour guide if you have any questions. Have a lunch (at your own expense) at a local restaurant here. You'll have a chance to taste some locals' favorite daily dishes. A wooden bridge The local house Local handicrafts 2:30 PM – 4:30 PM Visit the Natural Art Museum of Reed Flute Cave Having tasted the delicious lunch, you will head for the most famous cave in Guilin - Reed Flute Cave. It is called a "natural art museum" due to the numerous beautiful stalactites and stalagmites inside it. Decorated with colorful spotlights and with intriguing shadows cast across the cave's small pool, it's as though you are looking at a beautiful Chinese painting. A karst cave on such a great scale as this and with such beautiful natural formations is a rare natural phenomenon in the world. Now Reed Flute Cave has become a calling card of Guilin. More than 180 international heads of state and politicians have visited this cave, including two former presidents of the United States, Nixon and Carter. Reed Flute Cave Reed Flute Cave Avoid the Queue As VIP guests, our tour group will go to another entrance to skip the queue while other groups will have to remain in the queue for quite a long time. 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM Walk Around the City's Water System - Two Rivers and Four Lakes After visiting Reed Flute Cave, you'll be driven to the city center where you can enjoy a walk around the city's water system - Two Rivers and Four Lakes. The two rivers in the name relate to Guilin's two major rivers running through the city: the Li River and the Peach Blossom River. The four lakes in the name refer to the four major lakes in the city: Ronghu (Banyan Lake), Shahu (Chinese Fir Lake), Guihu (Osmanthus Lake), and Mulonghu (Wood Dragon Lake). These rivers and lakes are linked together in a circuit. Your walk will begin at Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate'), which used to be the south gate of Guilin during the Tang Dynasty in about 700 AD. Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate') Near the gate stands a 1,000-year-old banyan tree, which reflects the history of this city. In front of it is Banyan Lake - walk alongside it to discover ancient bridges in many different styles. Banyan Lake After you walk around Ronghu, you'll come to another lake named Shahu, which has twin towers standing in it. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers are landmarks of Guilin. The Sun Tower is the largest bronze Buddhist tower in the world. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers Continue onward to reach the most beautiful street in Guilin - Binjiang Road. The road runs alongside the Li River and you'll see the aptly named Elephant Trunk Hill, which appears to be an elephant drinking the river. Along the roadside, which is decorated with banyan trees, you'll see many street artists playing music and singing about this beautiful city. Binjiang Road Your final stop is Lijiang Waterfall Hotel, which is home to the largest man-made waterfall in the world. Your wonderful trip ends here. You can choose to continue walking in the nearby area (Zhengyang Pedestrian Street and the food market are only a few steps away) or you can be driven back to your hotel. Recommended Nighttime Activity The water system of Two Rivers and Four Lakes looks even more beautiful at night when it is decorated by the many city lights. Cruise boats run through the water system, departing between 8pm and 10pm. Each trip takes about 90 minutes and costs about 220 yuan. If you want to take this nighttime cruise, please ask your guide to book it for you. Cruise boats run through the water system Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call from your tour guide before 9:30pm to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call from your tour guide before 9:30pm to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. You'll receive a telephone call from your tour guide before 9:30pm to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to the Ancient Village of Xiongcun Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually between 8am and 8:30am. The tour guide will hold a Trippest bannerso that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - the ancient village of Xiongcun. It takes about 40 minutes (20 kilometers) to get there from Guilin city center. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Details about Your Transport: The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 8:00 AM – 9:30 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to the Ancient Village of Xiongcun Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually between 8am and 8:30am. The tour guide will hold a Trippest bannerso that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - the ancient village of Xiongcun. It takes about 40 minutes (20 kilometers) to get there from Guilin city center. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Details about Your Transport: The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually between 8am and 8:30am. The tour guide will hold a Trippest bannerso that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - the ancient village of Xiongcun. It takes about 40 minutes (20 kilometers) to get there from Guilin city center. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Details about Your Transport: • The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. • Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. • We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 9:30 AM – 11:00 AM Visit the Ancient Village of Xiongcun After a 40-minute drive, you will arrive at a peaceful ancient village called Xiongcun. This village has a history of more than 1,000 years. Xiongcun Village Xiongcun Village It was a very busy town in the past but its popularity faded as time went by. The original prosperity has been replaced with old houses, mossy stone steps, and elderly villagers who retell the village's ancient stories. Xiongcun Village A local house in Xiongcun In this village, you'll see the well-kept traditional Chinese residential culture. You'll have the chance to visit a local family's home and experience their peaceful lifestyle. Witnessing the lifestyle of the villagers will make you feel as though you have traveled back in time by several hundred years. An old lady was making Zongzi Leisure time An Authentic Ancient Village There is an ancient town nearby called Daxu Ancient Town. Compared with Xiongcun, Daxu is more touristic and commercialized. Xiongcun, on the other hand, is more original and fewer people have traveled there. You'll enjoy a more authentic experience there. 9:30 AM – 11:00 AM Visit the Ancient Village of Xiongcun After a 40-minute drive, you will arrive at a peaceful ancient village called Xiongcun. This village has a history of more than 1,000 years. Xiongcun Village Xiongcun Village It was a very busy town in the past but its popularity faded as time went by. The original prosperity has been replaced with old houses, mossy stone steps, and elderly villagers who retell the village's ancient stories. Xiongcun Village A local house in Xiongcun In this village, you'll see the well-kept traditional Chinese residential culture. You'll have the chance to visit a local family's home and experience their peaceful lifestyle. Witnessing the lifestyle of the villagers will make you feel as though you have traveled back in time by several hundred years. An old lady was making Zongzi Leisure time An Authentic Ancient Village There is an ancient town nearby called Daxu Ancient Town. Compared with Xiongcun, Daxu is more touristic and commercialized. Xiongcun, on the other hand, is more original and fewer people have traveled there. You'll enjoy a more authentic experience there. After a 40-minute drive, you will arrive at a peaceful ancient village called Xiongcun. This village has a history of more than 1,000 years. It was a very busy town in the past but its popularity faded as time went by. The original prosperity has been replaced with old houses, mossy stone steps, and elderly villagers who retell the village's ancient stories. A local house in Xiongcun In this village, you'll see the well-kept traditional Chinese residential culture. You'll have the chance to visit a local family's home and experience their peaceful lifestyle. Witnessing the lifestyle of the villagers will make you feel as though you have traveled back in time by several hundred years. An old lady was making Zongzi An Authentic Ancient Village • There is an ancient town nearby called Daxu Ancient Town. Compared with Xiongcun, Daxu is more touristic and commercialized. Xiongcun, on the other hand, is more original and fewer people have traveled there. You'll enjoy a more authentic experience there. 11:00 AM – 1:30 PM Visit Dong Li Ancient Village After 20-minute driving from Daxu, you'll arrive at a rebuilt village name Dong Li Ancient Village. It is near the mountains and nearby an important tributary (Chao Tian River) of the Li River. This village preserves the old dwellings style of Northen Guangxi. You may also see many handicrafts here, like pressing old with a flying hammer, weaving cotton cloth, forging iron, making wine, etc. As the city develops, some of handicrafts are dying out. Fortunately, these intangible cultural heritages are protected and inherited here. You can try one of handicrafts which is free. But if you want to do more deep experiences like potting, making dried bean milk cream, tie-dyed fabric, ect, that would be optional and pay on your own expense. Feel free to ask the tour guide if you have any questions. Have a lunch (at your own expense) at a local restaurant here. You'll have a chance to taste some locals' favorite daily dishes. A wooden bridge The local house Local handicrafts 11:00 AM – 1:30 PM Visit Dong Li Ancient Village After 20-minute driving from Daxu, you'll arrive at a rebuilt village name Dong Li Ancient Village. It is near the mountains and nearby an important tributary (Chao Tian River) of the Li River. This village preserves the old dwellings style of Northen Guangxi. You may also see many handicrafts here, like pressing old with a flying hammer, weaving cotton cloth, forging iron, making wine, etc. As the city develops, some of handicrafts are dying out. Fortunately, these intangible cultural heritages are protected and inherited here. You can try one of handicrafts which is free. But if you want to do more deep experiences like potting, making dried bean milk cream, tie-dyed fabric, ect, that would be optional and pay on your own expense. Feel free to ask the tour guide if you have any questions. Have a lunch (at your own expense) at a local restaurant here. You'll have a chance to taste some locals' favorite daily dishes. A wooden bridge The local house Local handicrafts After 20-minute driving from Daxu, you'll arrive at a rebuilt village name Dong Li Ancient Village. It is near the mountains and nearby an important tributary (Chao Tian River) of the Li River. This village preserves the old dwellings style of Northen Guangxi. You may also see many handicrafts here, like pressing old with a flying hammer, weaving cotton cloth, forging iron, making wine, etc. As the city develops, some of handicrafts are dying out. Fortunately, these intangible cultural heritages are protected and inherited here. You can try one of handicrafts which is free. But if you want to do more deep experiences like potting, making dried bean milk cream, tie-dyed fabric, ect, that would be optional and pay on your own expense. Feel free to ask the tour guide if you have any questions. Have a lunch (at your own expense) at a local restaurant here. You'll have a chance to taste some locals' favorite daily dishes. 2:30 PM – 4:30 PM Visit the Natural Art Museum of Reed Flute Cave Having tasted the delicious lunch, you will head for the most famous cave in Guilin - Reed Flute Cave. It is called a "natural art museum" due to the numerous beautiful stalactites and stalagmites inside it. Decorated with colorful spotlights and with intriguing shadows cast across the cave's small pool, it's as though you are looking at a beautiful Chinese painting. A karst cave on such a great scale as this and with such beautiful natural formations is a rare natural phenomenon in the world. Now Reed Flute Cave has become a calling card of Guilin. More than 180 international heads of state and politicians have visited this cave, including two former presidents of the United States, Nixon and Carter. Reed Flute Cave Reed Flute Cave Avoid the Queue As VIP guests, our tour group will go to another entrance to skip the queue while other groups will have to remain in the queue for quite a long time. 2:30 PM – 4:30 PM Visit the Natural Art Museum of Reed Flute Cave Having tasted the delicious lunch, you will head for the most famous cave in Guilin - Reed Flute Cave. It is called a "natural art museum" due to the numerous beautiful stalactites and stalagmites inside it. Decorated with colorful spotlights and with intriguing shadows cast across the cave's small pool, it's as though you are looking at a beautiful Chinese painting. A karst cave on such a great scale as this and with such beautiful natural formations is a rare natural phenomenon in the world. Now Reed Flute Cave has become a calling card of Guilin. More than 180 international heads of state and politicians have visited this cave, including two former presidents of the United States, Nixon and Carter. Reed Flute Cave Reed Flute Cave Avoid the Queue As VIP guests, our tour group will go to another entrance to skip the queue while other groups will have to remain in the queue for quite a long time. Having tasted the delicious lunch, you will head for the most famous cave in Guilin - Reed Flute Cave. It is called a "natural art museum" due to the numerous beautiful stalactites and stalagmites inside it. Decorated with colorful spotlights and with intriguing shadows cast across the cave's small pool, it's as though you are looking at a beautiful Chinese painting. A karst cave on such a great scale as this and with such beautiful natural formations is a rare natural phenomenon in the world. Now Reed Flute Cave has become a calling card of Guilin. More than 180 international heads of state and politicians have visited this cave, including two former presidents of the United States, Nixon and Carter. • As VIP guests, our tour group will go to another entrance to skip the queue while other groups will have to remain in the queue for quite a long time. 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM Walk Around the City's Water System - Two Rivers and Four Lakes After visiting Reed Flute Cave, you'll be driven to the city center where you can enjoy a walk around the city's water system - Two Rivers and Four Lakes. The two rivers in the name relate to Guilin's two major rivers running through the city: the Li River and the Peach Blossom River. The four lakes in the name refer to the four major lakes in the city: Ronghu (Banyan Lake), Shahu (Chinese Fir Lake), Guihu (Osmanthus Lake), and Mulonghu (Wood Dragon Lake). These rivers and lakes are linked together in a circuit. Your walk will begin at Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate'), which used to be the south gate of Guilin during the Tang Dynasty in about 700 AD. Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate') Near the gate stands a 1,000-year-old banyan tree, which reflects the history of this city. In front of it is Banyan Lake - walk alongside it to discover ancient bridges in many different styles. Banyan Lake After you walk around Ronghu, you'll come to another lake named Shahu, which has twin towers standing in it. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers are landmarks of Guilin. The Sun Tower is the largest bronze Buddhist tower in the world. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers Continue onward to reach the most beautiful street in Guilin - Binjiang Road. The road runs alongside the Li River and you'll see the aptly named Elephant Trunk Hill, which appears to be an elephant drinking the river. Along the roadside, which is decorated with banyan trees, you'll see many street artists playing music and singing about this beautiful city. Binjiang Road Your final stop is Lijiang Waterfall Hotel, which is home to the largest man-made waterfall in the world. Your wonderful trip ends here. You can choose to continue walking in the nearby area (Zhengyang Pedestrian Street and the food market are only a few steps away) or you can be driven back to your hotel. Recommended Nighttime Activity The water system of Two Rivers and Four Lakes looks even more beautiful at night when it is decorated by the many city lights. Cruise boats run through the water system, departing between 8pm and 10pm. Each trip takes about 90 minutes and costs about 220 yuan. If you want to take this nighttime cruise, please ask your guide to book it for you. Cruise boats run through the water system Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM Walk Around the City's Water System - Two Rivers and Four Lakes After visiting Reed Flute Cave, you'll be driven to the city center where you can enjoy a walk around the city's water system - Two Rivers and Four Lakes. The two rivers in the name relate to Guilin's two major rivers running through the city: the Li River and the Peach Blossom River. The four lakes in the name refer to the four major lakes in the city: Ronghu (Banyan Lake), Shahu (Chinese Fir Lake), Guihu (Osmanthus Lake), and Mulonghu (Wood Dragon Lake). These rivers and lakes are linked together in a circuit. Your walk will begin at Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate'), which used to be the south gate of Guilin during the Tang Dynasty in about 700 AD. Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate') Near the gate stands a 1,000-year-old banyan tree, which reflects the history of this city. In front of it is Banyan Lake - walk alongside it to discover ancient bridges in many different styles. Banyan Lake After you walk around Ronghu, you'll come to another lake named Shahu, which has twin towers standing in it. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers are landmarks of Guilin. The Sun Tower is the largest bronze Buddhist tower in the world. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers Continue onward to reach the most beautiful street in Guilin - Binjiang Road. The road runs alongside the Li River and you'll see the aptly named Elephant Trunk Hill, which appears to be an elephant drinking the river. Along the roadside, which is decorated with banyan trees, you'll see many street artists playing music and singing about this beautiful city. Binjiang Road Your final stop is Lijiang Waterfall Hotel, which is home to the largest man-made waterfall in the world. Your wonderful trip ends here. You can choose to continue walking in the nearby area (Zhengyang Pedestrian Street and the food market are only a few steps away) or you can be driven back to your hotel. Recommended Nighttime Activity The water system of Two Rivers and Four Lakes looks even more beautiful at night when it is decorated by the many city lights. Cruise boats run through the water system, departing between 8pm and 10pm. Each trip takes about 90 minutes and costs about 220 yuan. If you want to take this nighttime cruise, please ask your guide to book it for you. Cruise boats run through the water system Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. After visiting Reed Flute Cave, you'll be driven to the city center where you can enjoy a walk around the city's water system - Two Rivers and Four Lakes. The two rivers in the name relate to Guilin's two major rivers running through the city: the Li River and the Peach Blossom River. The four lakes in the name refer to the four major lakes in the city: Ronghu (Banyan Lake), Shahu (Chinese Fir Lake), Guihu (Osmanthus Lake), and Mulonghu (Wood Dragon Lake). These rivers and lakes are linked together in a circuit. Your walk will begin at Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate'), which used to be the south gate of Guilin during the Tang Dynasty in about 700 AD. Gunanmen (‘Old South Gate') Near the gate stands a 1,000-year-old banyan tree, which reflects the history of this city. In front of it is Banyan Lake - walk alongside it to discover ancient bridges in many different styles. After you walk around Ronghu, you'll come to another lake named Shahu, which has twin towers standing in it. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers are landmarks of Guilin. The Sun Tower is the largest bronze Buddhist tower in the world. The Sun and Moon Twin Towers Continue onward to reach the most beautiful street in Guilin - Binjiang Road. The road runs alongside the Li River and you'll see the aptly named Elephant Trunk Hill, which appears to be an elephant drinking the river. Along the roadside, which is decorated with banyan trees, you'll see many street artists playing music and singing about this beautiful city. Your final stop is Lijiang Waterfall Hotel, which is home to the largest man-made waterfall in the world. Your wonderful trip ends here. You can choose to continue walking in the nearby area (Zhengyang Pedestrian Street and the food market are only a few steps away) or you can be driven back to your hotel. Recommended Nighttime Activity • The water system of Two Rivers and Four Lakes looks even more beautiful at night when it is decorated by the many city lights. Cruise boats run through the water system, departing between 8pm and 10pm. Each trip takes about 90 minutes and costs about 220 yuan. If you want to take this nighttime cruise, please ask your guide to book it for you. Cruise boats run through the water system Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Know Before You Book Price Includes: Admission to Reed Flute Cave and Li Water Family Scenic Area. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. A walking trip to the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. Price Excludes: Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Cruise boat ticket for night activity. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Important Notes: Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. This trip is NOT opened during the China National Day golden week from Oct. 1st to Oct. 7th. Price Includes: Admission to Reed Flute Cave and Li Water Family Scenic Area. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. A walking trip to the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. Price Excludes: Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Cruise boat ticket for night activity. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Price Includes: Admission to Reed Flute Cave and Li Water Family Scenic Area. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. A walking trip to the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. Price Excludes: Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Cruise boat ticket for night activity. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). • Admission to Reed Flute Cave and Li Water Family Scenic Area. • Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. • English-speaking local guide service. • A walking trip to the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. • Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). • Cruise boat ticket for night activity. • Personal expenses. • Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Important Notes: Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. This trip is NOT opened during the China National Day golden week from Oct. 1st to Oct. 7th. • Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. • This trip is NOT opened during the China National Day golden week from Oct. 1st to Oct. 7th. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 106 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 106 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 106 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20