ID: 61664f955fca021f
Title: Beijing-Hong Kong High-Speed Trains, Schedules, Ticket Booking
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/china-trains/beijing-to-hong-kong-train.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China Train Ticket Booking China Train Int’l Train from China Please Select China Train Ticket Booking China Train Int’l Train from China Please Select • China Train • Int’l Train from China A pair of high-speed trains G79/G80 connects Beijing West Railway Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station, with a travel time of approximately 8.5 hours. It passes through major metropolises along the way including Zhengzhou, Wuhan, Changsha, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen. A second-class ticket from Beijing to Hong Kong or return by high-speed train costs US$174. A pair of overnight high-speed trains (G897/G898) has been in operation since early 2025, running four days a week—Monday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. Beijing - Hong Kong High-Speed Trains • Distance: 2,397 kilometers (1,489 miles) • Duration: 8 hours and 31 minutes • Number of trains in service: 1 pair of high-speed trains • Terminals: Beijing West Station, Hong Kong West Kowloon Station Beijing to Hong Kong Scenic Railway Map Beijing to Hong Kong High-Speed Train Schedule (Updated on March 13th, 2025) G79 Beijing West Station "北京西" to West Kowloon Station "西九龙" Station Name Arrival Time Departure Time Beijing West 10:00 Shijiazhuang 11:00 11:02 Zhengzhou East 12:18 12:21 Wuhan 13:55 13:59 Changsha South 15:10 15:13 Guangzhou South 17:17 17:21 Shenzhen North 17:50 17:54 West Kowloon 18:12 Hong Kong to Beijing High-Speed Train Schedule (Updated on March 13th, 2025) West Kowloon Station "西九龙" to Beijing West Station "北京西" Station Name Arrival Time Departure Time West Kowloon 11:20 Shenzhen North 11:38 11:41 Guangzhou South 12:10 12:13 Changsha South 14:16 14:19 Wuhan 15:31 15:34 Zhengzhou East 17:08 17:11 Shijiazhuang 18:27 18:29 Beijing West 19:30 Seat Classes and Prices on the Beijing – Hong Kong Bullet Train Ticket Types Business Class First Class Second Class Adult ticket US$538 (CNY3895) US$277 (CNY1997) US$174 (CNY1248) Child ticket US$538 (CNY3895) US$139 (CNY945) US$87 (CNY590) Children under 14 years of age can travel for free, but without their own seat. A child ticket is needed if a seat is required. Children over 14 years of age (including 14) are eligible for children's tickets (half price for first and second classes). Hong Kong to Beijing, by Train or Airplane? High-Speed Train Airplane Ticket Price US$163 for second class US$259 for first class US$148-US$500 for economy class Duration 8.5 hours 3.5 hours Frequency 1 high-speed train per day 25 direct flights per day Punctuality Punctual Occasional delays Seat Space More leg room than on an airplane Cramped Pros 1. Reasonable ticket prices 2. High-speed trains are fast and punctual 3. You can walk around on the train to stretch your legs 4. Enjoy window views on the way 1. The fastest mode of transportation between Beijing and Hong Kong 2. Airfare can be competitive when there are discounts Cons 1. Bullet train stations are a bit far from downtown 2. Sometimes it is noisy on train carriages, especially during Chinese holidays 1. Seats on airplanes are cramped 2. Airports are far from downtown areas 3. It takes more time for boarding airplanes 4. Not many window views In conclusion If travel time is your first concern, then the flight is the best choice for you. If you are on a budget, high-speed train is a cost-effective and comfortable choice. Co-Location Arrangement for Immigration Located within West Kowloon Station, you'll find the Hong Kong Port Area and Mainland Port Area on the B2 and B3 floors, respectively. Passengers embarking on high-speed train journeys between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland can conveniently undergo entry and exit immigration procedures in close proximity. This streamlined arrangement significantly reduces both time and inconvenience, enhancing the overall travel experience. Mainland Bound Station Arrival, Getting Tickets, Immigration, Customs and Boarding Procedures To access the ticket purchasing office for mainland-bound trains, head to the Ticket Hall located on level B1. Once you have obtained your tickets, proceed through the ticket examinations and security scanner checks. Next, make your way to the Departure Hall on level B3 using the conveniently available escalators. Upon reaching B3, commence the departure process by going through Hong Kong Immigration Departure Clearance, where your passport will be checked. Afterward, proceed to the Customs clearance area and traverse a long corridor that leads to the Immigration Check Point. Here, you will wait in line for passport checks. Continue the process by passing through the Customs Procedures area. Finally, find a spot near the train platform gates and await their opening, marking the final stage before boarding your train. Upon the opening of the gates, departing passengers will need to descend to the B4 Platform using the available escalators. From there, locate and enter your designated carriage as stated on your ticket. For information about riding the bullet trains and tips about bullet trains and tickets, see: 7 Things to Know Before Riding a Train in China and How To Take a Train in China. Hong Kong Bound Disembarkation, Immigration, Customs, and Exit Procedures The passengers who are arriving will disembark their trains at the B4 Platform. Go up to level B2 via the escalators, and then undergo passport checking at the mainland Departure Clearance area. Go through the adjacent mainland customs area and walk down the passageway. At Hong Kong Immigration, they will check your passport and visa status. Undergo the Hong Kong Quarantine check, if any, pass through Hong Kong Customs, and then have your ticket checked before exiting the station. For more information about entering/exiting/using the West Kowloon Station, see Hong Kong West Kowloon Station. FAQs on Hong Kong-Guangzhou High-Speed Trains How long does it take to travel from Beijing to Hong Kong by train? The G79/G80 high-speed train offers efficient connectivity between Beijing West Railway Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station, covering an impressive distance of 2,397 kilometers (1,489 miles) in approximately 9 hours. How to get to West Kowloon Railway Station? Located in the downtown area, Hong Kong West Kowloon Station is well-connected to other parts of the city and offers seamless transportation options with its pick-up and drop-off facilities for local bus, taxi, and private car. The most convenient and efficient way to reach West Kowloon Station is by using the MTR. Located between MTR Kowloon Station and Austin Station, it has direct access to MTR Tuen Ma Line and Tung Chung Line via the overhead bridge or pedestrian tunnel. Nearby, you'll find the West Kowloon Station Bus Terminus and Kowloon Station Public Transport Interchange, providing convenient bus and minibus services to/from other parts of the city. Are there any alternative transportation options between Beijing and Hong Kong? Besides trains, you can opt for flights between Beijing and Hong Kong, which offer quicker travel times but may be more expensive. Another option is to take a long-distance bus, although it is a significantly longer journey compared to trains or flights. Can I get a refund or change my train ticket if needed? How to get from HKG to Guangzhou city? High-speed trains to and from Hong Kong will have different ticket change/cancellation policies, due to the difference of China Railway and Hong Kong Railway ticketing systems. Find out more information about Hong Kong bullet train ticket booking . How long does it take to travel from Beijing to Hong Kong by train? The G79/G80 high-speed train offers efficient connectivity between Beijing West Railway Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station, covering an impressive distance of 2,397 kilometers (1,489 miles) in approximately 9 hours. How long does it take to travel from Beijing to Hong Kong by train? The G79/G80 high-speed train offers efficient connectivity between Beijing West Railway Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station, covering an impressive distance of 2,397 kilometers (1,489 miles) in approximately 9 hours. How long does it take to travel from Beijing to Hong Kong by train? How long does it take to travel from Beijing to Hong Kong by train? The G79/G80 high-speed train offers efficient connectivity between Beijing West Railway Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station, covering an impressive distance of 2,397 kilometers (1,489 miles) in approximately 9 hours. The G79/G80 high-speed train offers efficient connectivity between Beijing West Railway Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station, covering an impressive distance of 2,397 kilometers (1,489 miles) in approximately 9 hours. The G79/G80 high-speed train offers efficient connectivity between Beijing West Railway Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station, covering an impressive distance of 2,397 kilometers (1,489 miles) in approximately 9 hours. The G79/G80 high-speed train offers efficient connectivity between Beijing West Railway Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station, covering an impressive distance of 2,397 kilometers (1,489 miles) in approximately 9 hours. How to get to West Kowloon Railway Station? Located in the downtown area, Hong Kong West Kowloon Station is well-connected to other parts of the city and offers seamless transportation options with its pick-up and drop-off facilities for local bus, taxi, and private car. The most convenient and efficient way to reach West Kowloon Station is by using the MTR. Located between MTR Kowloon Station and Austin Station, it has direct access to MTR Tuen Ma Line and Tung Chung Line via the overhead bridge or pedestrian tunnel. Nearby, you'll find the West Kowloon Station Bus Terminus and Kowloon Station Public Transport Interchange, providing convenient bus and minibus services to/from other parts of the city. How to get to West Kowloon Railway Station? Located in the downtown area, Hong Kong West Kowloon Station is well-connected to other parts of the city and offers seamless transportation options with its pick-up and drop-off facilities for local bus, taxi, and private car. The most convenient and efficient way to reach West Kowloon Station is by using the MTR. Located between MTR Kowloon Station and Austin Station, it has direct access to MTR Tuen Ma Line and Tung Chung Line via the overhead bridge or pedestrian tunnel. Nearby, you'll find the West Kowloon Station Bus Terminus and Kowloon Station Public Transport Interchange, providing convenient bus and minibus services to/from other parts of the city. How to get to West Kowloon Railway Station? How to get to West Kowloon Railway Station? Located in the downtown area, Hong Kong West Kowloon Station is well-connected to other parts of the city and offers seamless transportation options with its pick-up and drop-off facilities for local bus, taxi, and private car. The most convenient and efficient way to reach West Kowloon Station is by using the MTR. Located between MTR Kowloon Station and Austin Station, it has direct access to MTR Tuen Ma Line and Tung Chung Line via the overhead bridge or pedestrian tunnel. Nearby, you'll find the West Kowloon Station Bus Terminus and Kowloon Station Public Transport Interchange, providing convenient bus and minibus services to/from other parts of the city. Located in the downtown area, Hong Kong West Kowloon Station is well-connected to other parts of the city and offers seamless transportation options with its pick-up and drop-off facilities for local bus, taxi, and private car. The most convenient and efficient way to reach West Kowloon Station is by using the MTR. Located between MTR Kowloon Station and Austin Station, it has direct access to MTR Tuen Ma Line and Tung Chung Line via the overhead bridge or pedestrian tunnel. Nearby, you'll find the West Kowloon Station Bus Terminus and Kowloon Station Public Transport Interchange, providing convenient bus and minibus services to/from other parts of the city. Located in the downtown area, Hong Kong West Kowloon Station is well-connected to other parts of the city and offers seamless transportation options with its pick-up and drop-off facilities for local bus, taxi, and private car. The most convenient and efficient way to reach West Kowloon Station is by using the MTR. Located between MTR Kowloon Station and Austin Station, it has direct access to MTR Tuen Ma Line and Tung Chung Line via the overhead bridge or pedestrian tunnel. Nearby, you'll find the West Kowloon Station Bus Terminus and Kowloon Station Public Transport Interchange, providing convenient bus and minibus services to/from other parts of the city. Located in the downtown area, Hong Kong West Kowloon Station is well-connected to other parts of the city and offers seamless transportation options with its pick-up and drop-off facilities for local bus, taxi, and private car. The most convenient and efficient way to reach West Kowloon Station is by using the MTR. Located between MTR Kowloon Station and Austin Station, it has direct access to MTR Tuen Ma Line and Tung Chung Line via the overhead bridge or pedestrian tunnel. Nearby, you'll find the West Kowloon Station Bus Terminus and Kowloon Station Public Transport Interchange, providing convenient bus and minibus services to/from other parts of the city. Are there any alternative transportation options between Beijing and Hong Kong? Besides trains, you can opt for flights between Beijing and Hong Kong, which offer quicker travel times but may be more expensive. Another option is to take a long-distance bus, although it is a significantly longer journey compared to trains or flights. Are there any alternative transportation options between Beijing and Hong Kong? Besides trains, you can opt for flights between Beijing and Hong Kong, which offer quicker travel times but may be more expensive. Another option is to take a long-distance bus, although it is a significantly longer journey compared to trains or flights. Are there any alternative transportation options between Beijing and Hong Kong? Are there any alternative transportation options between Beijing and Hong Kong? Besides trains, you can opt for flights between Beijing and Hong Kong, which offer quicker travel times but may be more expensive. Another option is to take a long-distance bus, although it is a significantly longer journey compared to trains or flights. Besides trains, you can opt for flights between Beijing and Hong Kong, which offer quicker travel times but may be more expensive. Another option is to take a long-distance bus, although it is a significantly longer journey compared to trains or flights. Besides trains, you can opt for flights between Beijing and Hong Kong, which offer quicker travel times but may be more expensive. Another option is to take a long-distance bus, although it is a significantly longer journey compared to trains or flights. Besides trains, you can opt for flights between Beijing and Hong Kong, which offer quicker travel times but may be more expensive. Another option is to take a long-distance bus, although it is a significantly longer journey compared to trains or flights. Can I get a refund or change my train ticket if needed? How to get from HKG to Guangzhou city? High-speed trains to and from Hong Kong will have different ticket change/cancellation policies, due to the difference of China Railway and Hong Kong Railway ticketing systems. Find out more information about Hong Kong bullet train ticket booking . Can I get a refund or change my train ticket if needed? How to get from HKG to Guangzhou city? High-speed trains to and from Hong Kong will have different ticket change/cancellation policies, due to the difference of China Railway and Hong Kong Railway ticketing systems. Find out more information about Hong Kong bullet train ticket booking . Can I get a refund or change my train ticket if needed? How to get from HKG to Guangzhou city? Can I get a refund or change my train ticket if needed? How to get from HKG to Guangzhou city? High-speed trains to and from Hong Kong will have different ticket change/cancellation policies, due to the difference of China Railway and Hong Kong Railway ticketing systems. Find out more information about Hong Kong bullet train ticket booking . High-speed trains to and from Hong Kong will have different ticket change/cancellation policies, due to the difference of China Railway and Hong Kong Railway ticketing systems. Find out more information about Hong Kong bullet train ticket booking . High-speed trains to and from Hong Kong will have different ticket change/cancellation policies, due to the difference of China Railway and Hong Kong Railway ticketing systems. Find out more information about Hong Kong bullet train ticket booking . High-speed trains to and from Hong Kong will have different ticket change/cancellation policies, due to the difference of China Railway and Hong Kong Railway ticketing systems. Find out more information about Hong Kong bullet train ticket booking . Popular Train Routes from Beijing and Hong Kong • Beijing-Shanghai High-Speed Trains • Beijing - Xi'an High-Speed Trains • Hong Kong to Guangzhou High-Speed Trains • Hong Kong - Shenzhen High-Speed Trains