ID: 68fe9deabe925870
Title: Good Places to go Fishing in Shenzhen, Where to Fish in Shenzhen
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/shenzhen/article-fishing-places.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Fishing is an exercise full of romance, excitement and vitality with a long history of over a hundred years in European and American developed countries. A decade ago, Americans regarded fishing as one of four noble sports which also include golf, horse riding and tennis. Although the rise in popularity of fishing has not been established for very long in China, it is popular among the young. There are a number of places suitable for fishing around Shenzhen. When spring arrives, the weather becomes warmer and you can enjoy the fresh air and splendid landscape, as well as swimming and going fishing with your families and friends. Huaide Fishing and Barbecue Ground There are two ponds of different sizes. The best place for fishing is located at the confluence of both ponds. Facing to the right of the big pond, there is an ideal place for recreation. It provides ponds for fishing, space for barbecues, a local chicken farm and an orchard. Price: off-season (January, February and March) 100 yuan/4 hours; peak season (from April to November) 100 yuan/3 hours (anglers can keep all fishes caught by themselves or sell them to the owner for 3 yuan/half kilogram). Fish types: Carassius cuvieri, tilapia fish, catfish, carp and chubs. Address: Huaide Village, Fuyong Town, Bao'an District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province (beneath the tunnel of Tiger Mountain, the hill behind Jintai Furniture building) 广东省深圳市宝安区福永镇怀德村 Transportation guide: you can take the airport exit off the Guangshen Expressway and drive back to National Highway 107 towards the direction of Guangzhou. It stands on the right-hand side. Turn right when you see it. Donghu Fishing and Barbecue Ground There are two ponds for people to go fishing. The bigger one contains a small number of wild fishes. The smaller one is an intensive-pond filled with Carassius cuvieri which have been bred for many years. The pond is long and covered with greenery and has a tranquil atmosphere. Price: the small pond has a one-off fee of 20 yuan and you cannot take any fish; the big fishpond charge is 45 yuan and you can take 5 kilograms of fish. Fish types: Carassius cuvieri, tilapia fish (the majority), carp, bullhead and mud carp. Address: Dong Lake Park, Luohu District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province 广东省深圳市罗湖区东湖公园内. Transportation: you can take Bus 3 or 17 to the Donghu terminus stop, but it is better to drive there yourself. Fairy Lake Botanical Garden Fishing Center Fairy Lake is located in Wutong Mountain with beautiful surroundings and fresh air. Cars can be driven up to the space near the fishing points. The lake is deep and wide with several hundred fishing points. Some points are made of wood. Recommendation on fishing tackle: it is better to use a hand rod of more than 4.5 meters' length and a telescopic fishing rod because of the deep and wide lake. What's more, there are various fish types and their sizes vary greatly. When you utilize the hand rod, you should apply a rough line mix (main line 3-2#, sub-line 1.5-1#). Address: Fairy Lake Botanical Garden, Liantang Industrial Zone, Luohu District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province. 广东省深圳市罗湖区莲塘工业区仙湖植物园内 Transportation: you can take Bus 220, 468 and 218 respectively from the constructed road at Shangsha. Price: tickets for Fairy Lake are 20 yuan per person and 10 yuan per car. The big pond has a fee 50 yuan (60 yuan during the holidays) and a set limit of 5 kilograms of fishes. The small pond has a fee of 100 yuan and a set limit of 5 kilograms of fishes. Fish charge: there is no charge if you take less than 5 kilograms of fishes which are all caught by you, but an excess fee of 4 yuan per kilogram will be charged. Fish types: Carassius cuvieri, tilapia fish, bullhead and carp. Kuichong Reservoir (Kang Da'er Training Center) It is in a remote mountain away from the world of noise. Except for occasional voices, you can only hear birds singing and the insects calling. The air is absolutely fresh and clean. The water is clean and the fishes are dynamic. It is open for 24 hours, but non-members are not permitted access. No catering is provided so please prepare food for yourself in advance. Recommendation on fishing tackle: suitable for use are a hand rod and telescopic fishing rod within 3.6-5.4 meters. Address: Kuichong Reservoir (Kang Da'er Training Center), Kuichong Town, Longgang District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province 广东省深圳市龙岗区葵冲镇葵冲水库 (康达尔培训中心) Fish types: tilapia fish, chub and grass carp. Price: 30 yuan per day, without any fishing limits. Dragon Lake Fishing Club It is located in the Longgang Botanical Garden, near the green golf field which has 36 holes. The lake is a natural one, occupying 48 hectares. There are three manmade islands in the lake center which are linked with curved bridges. Placing yourself there, enjoying the splendid view of the land and green grass, you will have a sense of delightfulness and refreshment. The 7th National Friendly Cities "Long Lake Cup" Fishing Competition in 1997 and the Fishing Competition in Shenzhen in 1999 were held there. Opening hours: from Sundays to Thursdays it is open to midnight (open for 24 hours during holidays from Fridays to Saturdays, providing catering). Tel: 0775-84822066, 22063241 Address: Long Lake Fishing Club, Longgang District (Zhongxin), Shenzhen City 深圳市龙岗区 (中信) 龙湖钓鱼俱乐部 1. 50 yuan/person/two fishing rods (there is no extra fee if you take less than 5 kilograms of fish which you have caught yourself, but any excess will incur a charge of 10 yuan per kilogram). 2. You will be offered a 20% discount if you are in a group of over 8 people. 3. People who don't actually fish but just accompany anglers will be charged 15 yuan per day. 4. 100 yuan for each lob cabin (there is no extra fee if you take less than 10 kilograms of fish which you have caught yourself, but any excess will incur a charge of 10 yuan per kilogram). 50 yuan per person for one fishing rod (there is no extra fee if you take less than 5 kilograms of fishes that you have caught yourself, but any excess will incur a fee of 5 yuan per kilogram). Fish types: grass carp, carp and bullhead. Dapeng Relaxing Fishing Village Address: Shuitou Relaxing Fishing Center, Dapeng Town, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province 广东省深圳市龙岗区大鹏镇水头休闲养殖中心 30 yuan per person for the entrance fee. The fee will be charged according to the price list which is classified by the fish types. As the different kinds of fish in the pond were transported from the local farms, the transportation fee will be included as 10% of the purchasing price in the fishing payment. As the baited fish can't survive and cause serious ecological and environmental pollution to the fishpond, any violators who are caught putting these fish into the pond will be charged 100 yuan. The notices for the District B fishing pond: 1. 120 yuan per person for two hours and a timeout will be 60 yuan per hour. 2. If the weight of the fish is within ten catties it will be free of charge, but anything over this weight will be 15 yuan per catty. Each person will be free to borrow one fishing rod and get one portion of bait. The bait is sold for 10 yuan and includes shrimp and small fish types. The compensation for one fishing rod is 50 yuan. Fish types: tilapia fish, carp, grass carp and silver carp. Meiguan Dafapu Fishing and Entertainment Center Bao'an District Meiguan Dafapu Fishing and Entertainment Center is assigned as the competition training base which covers an area of 80,000 square meters, having restaurants, private rooms, fishing cabins and parking lots, and offering bait. With the beautiful scenery and fresh air, this area is suitable for a fabulous family trip. Opening hours: from 8:00 am to midnight Address: Dafapu Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province (广东省深圳市宝安区大发埔). It is to the left side of the Dafapu exit of Meiguan Highway, next to the toll station of Dafapu Meiguan Highway, five kilometers from Meilin. Traffic guide: Drive through the Meilin tolls, get on the first exit, take the turning for Dafapu 大发埔 (5 yuan charge), go out of the toll station, immediately turn left and there is the main entrance. The small pond: 60 yuan/day (8 hours); members are 50 yuan/day; if no fish are taken the fee is 30 yuan/day (8 hours). The big pond: 60 yuan/day with sea and hand rods; there are no fishing limits. Fish types: tilapia, pearl fish within 1 catty, white crucian carp within 5-7 catties, grass carp within 5 to 10 catties. Happy Fishing and Barbecue in Gongming Lou Village Bao'an District Happy Fishing and Barbecue in Gongming Lou Village is inside a litchi orchard and surrounded by a litchi forest. With a beautiful environment and fresh air, it has fishing activities, barbecues, service departments and free barbecue utensils. Tel: 0755-27405687 or 27115889 Address: Gongming Lou Village, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, beside the Changle Pavilion in Wide Litchi Garden (Guangming Farm Back Mountain) 广东省深圳市宝安区公明镇楼村， 万亩荔枝园长乐亭旁 (光明农场后山) Price: 20 yuan per day if no fish are taken, the fish are sold for 5 yuan per kilogram; or 30 yuan per hour with no fish limits. Fish types: carp, tilapia fish and grass carp. Swan Lake Fishing Grounds The E'jing Reservoir is located in Fenghuang Village, Guangming Farm, Bao'an District. From the downtown area to the Swan Lake Scenic Area (E'jing Reservoir), it takes around 15 minutes. Shenzhen Guangming Farm is the largest vegetable and eco-agricultural tourism demonstration base, having fishing grounds, a beautiful environment, fresh air and a unique architectural style. The source of water comes from the reservoir, and the water is clear. The distinctive food used is Shenzhen Changming vegetable market's long leaf vegetables and wheat. So the fish taste especially delicious, and anglers have nicknamed the fish for fun as the "green products". Address: E'jing Reservoir, Fenghuang Village, Guangming Farm, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province 广东省深圳市宝安区光明农场凤凰村鹅颈水库 Price: the daytime fee is 50 yuan per rod per person; night-time after 7pm is 60 yuan per rod per person; an additional rod costs 20 yuan. Fish types: aconite, tilapia, bass, carp and grass carp.