ID: 443542833c4bfa47
Title: 1-day Shanghai Classic Bus Tour: Yu Garden, Zhujiajiao Water Town, Bund
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/shanghai/shanghai-bus-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Hit Shanghai’s most impressive sights in a single, action-packed excursion during this full-day trip—perfect for first-timers. Start by exploring the more traditional side of town as you visit the the centuries-old waterways of Zhujiajiao, the serene 400-year-old Yu Garden, and Shanghait's vibrant Old Town. Then, discover the modern side of the fast-paced city on a scenic walk in the cutting-edge Bund district. Tour Highlights The most affordable way to explore Shanghai in a full day by bus. Visit must-see attractions such as Zhujiajiao Water Town, Yu Garden and The Bund. All entrance fees and a light lunch are included for your convenience. Friendly local tour guide and comfortable vehicle make the trip hassle-free. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call or text from your guide, he/she will confirm the meeting time at 9:30 AM for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:30 AM Meet the Guide Our tour has no pick-up service, please make your way to meet our guide at the meeting point below: Gate of Renaissance Shanghai Yu Garden Hotel Address: No.159 He'nan South Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 200010, China Note: You can take Subway Line 10 or line 14 and get off at the【YuYuan Garden Station】. After exiting from Exit 3, cross the street to reach the meeting point. 9:30 AM - 11:30 PMVisit Chenghuang Area and Yu Garden Transfer to Chenghuang Historial Area. Explore Shanghai Old Town, immersing yourself in the lively local atmosphere and traditional charm. Visit the exquisite Yu Garden, a classic example of Chinese imperial garden design, and admire its tranquil pavilions, ponds, and rock formations. Yu garden 11:30 AM - 1:30 PMTransfer to Zhujiajiao and have Lunch Board the bus and depart for the enchanting Zhujiajiao Water Town ( 1 hour driving). Once arrived in Zhujiajiao, you will enjoy a Shanghai-style light meal and sample local snacks. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi 1:30 PM – 4:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village After lunch, immerse yourself in Zhujiajiao, often called the 'Venice of Shanghai'. In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola(not included) on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge 4:00 PM – 7:30 PMTransfer to Shanghai and visit the Bund Wrap up your enchanting water town adventure and board the comfortable coach for your journey back to downtown Shanghai. Walking along the Bund of Shanghai, enjoy iconic 'World Architecture Gallery' while our guide shares its fascinating history. Tour ends at the Bund. After that, you may freely explore the Bund and enjoy its stunning night views. The bund Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Shanghai-style light meal lunch. Air-conditioned comfortable bus. English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop off service. Boat riding at Zhujiajiao Water Town. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Hit Shanghai’s most impressive sights in a single, action-packed excursion during this full-day trip—perfect for first-timers. Start by exploring the more traditional side of town as you visit the the centuries-old waterways of Zhujiajiao, the serene 400-year-old Yu Garden, and Shanghait's vibrant Old Town. Then, discover the modern side of the fast-paced city on a scenic walk in the cutting-edge Bund district. Hit Shanghai’s most impressive sights in a single, action-packed excursion during this full-day trip—perfect for first-timers. Start by exploring the more traditional side of town as you visit the the centuries-old waterways of Zhujiajiao, the serene 400-year-old Yu Garden, and Shanghait's vibrant Old Town. Then, discover the modern side of the fast-paced city on a scenic walk in the cutting-edge Bund district. Tour Highlights The most affordable way to explore Shanghai in a full day by bus. Visit must-see attractions such as Zhujiajiao Water Town, Yu Garden and The Bund. All entrance fees and a light lunch are included for your convenience. Friendly local tour guide and comfortable vehicle make the trip hassle-free. • The most affordable way to explore Shanghai in a full day by bus. • Visit must-see attractions such as Zhujiajiao Water Town, Yu Garden and The Bund. • All entrance fees and a light lunch are included for your convenience. • Friendly local tour guide and comfortable vehicle make the trip hassle-free. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call or text from your guide, he/she will confirm the meeting time at 9:30 AM for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:30 AM Meet the Guide Our tour has no pick-up service, please make your way to meet our guide at the meeting point below: Gate of Renaissance Shanghai Yu Garden Hotel Address: No.159 He'nan South Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 200010, China Note: You can take Subway Line 10 or line 14 and get off at the【YuYuan Garden Station】. After exiting from Exit 3, cross the street to reach the meeting point. 9:30 AM - 11:30 PMVisit Chenghuang Area and Yu Garden Transfer to Chenghuang Historial Area. Explore Shanghai Old Town, immersing yourself in the lively local atmosphere and traditional charm. Visit the exquisite Yu Garden, a classic example of Chinese imperial garden design, and admire its tranquil pavilions, ponds, and rock formations. Yu garden 11:30 AM - 1:30 PMTransfer to Zhujiajiao and have Lunch Board the bus and depart for the enchanting Zhujiajiao Water Town ( 1 hour driving). Once arrived in Zhujiajiao, you will enjoy a Shanghai-style light meal and sample local snacks. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi 1:30 PM – 4:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village After lunch, immerse yourself in Zhujiajiao, often called the 'Venice of Shanghai'. In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola(not included) on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge 4:00 PM – 7:30 PMTransfer to Shanghai and visit the Bund Wrap up your enchanting water town adventure and board the comfortable coach for your journey back to downtown Shanghai. Walking along the Bund of Shanghai, enjoy iconic 'World Architecture Gallery' while our guide shares its fascinating history. Tour ends at the Bund. After that, you may freely explore the Bund and enjoy its stunning night views. The bund Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call or text from your guide, he/she will confirm the meeting time at 9:30 AM for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:30 AM Meet the Guide Our tour has no pick-up service, please make your way to meet our guide at the meeting point below: Gate of Renaissance Shanghai Yu Garden Hotel Address: No.159 He'nan South Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 200010, China Note: You can take Subway Line 10 or line 14 and get off at the【YuYuan Garden Station】. After exiting from Exit 3, cross the street to reach the meeting point. 9:30 AM - 11:30 PMVisit Chenghuang Area and Yu Garden Transfer to Chenghuang Historial Area. Explore Shanghai Old Town, immersing yourself in the lively local atmosphere and traditional charm. Visit the exquisite Yu Garden, a classic example of Chinese imperial garden design, and admire its tranquil pavilions, ponds, and rock formations. Yu garden 11:30 AM - 1:30 PMTransfer to Zhujiajiao and have Lunch Board the bus and depart for the enchanting Zhujiajiao Water Town ( 1 hour driving). Once arrived in Zhujiajiao, you will enjoy a Shanghai-style light meal and sample local snacks. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi 1:30 PM – 4:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village After lunch, immerse yourself in Zhujiajiao, often called the 'Venice of Shanghai'. In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola(not included) on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge 4:00 PM – 7:30 PMTransfer to Shanghai and visit the Bund Wrap up your enchanting water town adventure and board the comfortable coach for your journey back to downtown Shanghai. Walking along the Bund of Shanghai, enjoy iconic 'World Architecture Gallery' while our guide shares its fascinating history. Tour ends at the Bund. After that, you may freely explore the Bund and enjoy its stunning night views. The bund The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call or text from your guide, he/she will confirm the meeting time at 9:30 AM for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call or text from your guide, he/she will confirm the meeting time at 9:30 AM for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call or text from your guide, he/she will confirm the meeting time at 9:30 AM for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:30 AM Meet the Guide Our tour has no pick-up service, please make your way to meet our guide at the meeting point below: Gate of Renaissance Shanghai Yu Garden Hotel Address: No.159 He'nan South Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 200010, China Note: You can take Subway Line 10 or line 14 and get off at the【YuYuan Garden Station】. After exiting from Exit 3, cross the street to reach the meeting point. 9:30 AM Meet the Guide Our tour has no pick-up service, please make your way to meet our guide at the meeting point below: Gate of Renaissance Shanghai Yu Garden Hotel Address: No.159 He'nan South Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 200010, China Note: You can take Subway Line 10 or line 14 and get off at the【YuYuan Garden Station】. After exiting from Exit 3, cross the street to reach the meeting point. Our tour has no pick-up service, please make your way to meet our guide at the meeting point below: • Gate of Renaissance Shanghai Yu Garden Hotel • Address: No.159 He'nan South Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 200010, China • Note: You can take Subway Line 10 or line 14 and get off at the【YuYuan Garden Station】. After exiting from Exit 3, cross the street to reach the meeting point. 9:30 AM - 11:30 PMVisit Chenghuang Area and Yu Garden Transfer to Chenghuang Historial Area. Explore Shanghai Old Town, immersing yourself in the lively local atmosphere and traditional charm. Visit the exquisite Yu Garden, a classic example of Chinese imperial garden design, and admire its tranquil pavilions, ponds, and rock formations. Yu garden 9:30 AM - 11:30 PMVisit Chenghuang Area and Yu Garden Transfer to Chenghuang Historial Area. Explore Shanghai Old Town, immersing yourself in the lively local atmosphere and traditional charm. Visit the exquisite Yu Garden, a classic example of Chinese imperial garden design, and admire its tranquil pavilions, ponds, and rock formations. Yu garden Transfer to Chenghuang Historial Area. Explore Shanghai Old Town, immersing yourself in the lively local atmosphere and traditional charm. Visit the exquisite Yu Garden, a classic example of Chinese imperial garden design, and admire its tranquil pavilions, ponds, and rock formations. 11:30 AM - 1:30 PMTransfer to Zhujiajiao and have Lunch Board the bus and depart for the enchanting Zhujiajiao Water Town ( 1 hour driving). Once arrived in Zhujiajiao, you will enjoy a Shanghai-style light meal and sample local snacks. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi 11:30 AM - 1:30 PMTransfer to Zhujiajiao and have Lunch Board the bus and depart for the enchanting Zhujiajiao Water Town ( 1 hour driving). Once arrived in Zhujiajiao, you will enjoy a Shanghai-style light meal and sample local snacks. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi Board the bus and depart for the enchanting Zhujiajiao Water Town ( 1 hour driving). Once arrived in Zhujiajiao, you will enjoy a Shanghai-style light meal and sample local snacks. Famous snack in Zhujiajiao--Zongzi 1:30 PM – 4:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village After lunch, immerse yourself in Zhujiajiao, often called the 'Venice of Shanghai'. In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola(not included) on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge 1:30 PM – 4:00 PMExplore Zhujiajiao Water Village After lunch, immerse yourself in Zhujiajiao, often called the 'Venice of Shanghai'. In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola(not included) on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Visiting by boat Many boats on the river Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. Fangsheng Bridge After lunch, immerse yourself in Zhujiajiao, often called the 'Venice of Shanghai'. In centuries past Zhujiajiao (/joo-jyaa-jyaoww/) was a trading area: the many canals were used to ferry products along in little boats and barges. Boats are still very much part of the charm of the place. Small boats are ubiquitous there, functioning as a nice way to get a view of the town and experience local life. Map of Zhujiajiao Watertown You will be taking a gondola(not included) on the waterway to view the face of old town from a different angle at your pace. If you want some more time for taking photos, or you have more questions about the history and architecture, just let your guide know. Many boats on the river Your tour guide will help you explore some carefully-selected places along the waterway, recommended by our local experts, while other group tours only ride the waterway in a routine way. Kezhi (/ker-jrr/) Garden at the northern edge of the old district on Xijing Street is a garden dating back to 1912. "Kezhi" means 'Study Plants', and the garden was a place to see and learn about plants. You can get some excellent pictures, for example of bright yellow rapeseed flowers, in Kezhi Garden. The area consists of a main hall, a garden, and an artificial hill. The outstanding feature of the garden is a five-story building with a pavilion on its roof - the tallest structure in old Zhujiajiao. The front of Kezhi Garden Qing Dynasty Post Office: On Xihu (/sshee-hoo/ 'West Lake') Street there is a post office built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911), said to be the best preserved of its era in China. There are many exhibits: among them old letters written on bamboo and antique post cards of old Shanghai. Post office in Qing dynasty Fangsheng Bridge is one of the main attractions among the 36 ancient stone bridges, some only one yard wide. It was built in 1812, and is said to be the largest stone arch bridge in Shanghai, resting on five arches, about 70 meters long, and 5.8 meters tall. 4:00 PM – 7:30 PMTransfer to Shanghai and visit the Bund Wrap up your enchanting water town adventure and board the comfortable coach for your journey back to downtown Shanghai. Walking along the Bund of Shanghai, enjoy iconic 'World Architecture Gallery' while our guide shares its fascinating history. Tour ends at the Bund. After that, you may freely explore the Bund and enjoy its stunning night views. The bund 4:00 PM – 7:30 PMTransfer to Shanghai and visit the Bund Wrap up your enchanting water town adventure and board the comfortable coach for your journey back to downtown Shanghai. Walking along the Bund of Shanghai, enjoy iconic 'World Architecture Gallery' while our guide shares its fascinating history. Tour ends at the Bund. After that, you may freely explore the Bund and enjoy its stunning night views. The bund Wrap up your enchanting water town adventure and board the comfortable coach for your journey back to downtown Shanghai. Walking along the Bund of Shanghai, enjoy iconic 'World Architecture Gallery' while our guide shares its fascinating history. Tour ends at the Bund. After that, you may freely explore the Bund and enjoy its stunning night views. Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Shanghai-style light meal lunch. Air-conditioned comfortable bus. English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop off service. Boat riding at Zhujiajiao Water Town. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Shanghai-style light meal lunch. Air-conditioned comfortable bus. English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop off service. Boat riding at Zhujiajiao Water Town. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Shanghai-style light meal lunch. Air-conditioned comfortable bus. English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop off service. Boat riding at Zhujiajiao Water Town. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). • Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. • Shanghai-style light meal lunch. • Air-conditioned comfortable bus. • English-speaking local guide. • Hotel pick-up and drop off service. • Boat riding at Zhujiajiao Water Town. • Personal expenses. • Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 77 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 77 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 77 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20