ID: 2257034cd991d97d
Title: 3-Hour Beijing Hutong Breakfast Food Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/beijing/3-hour-beijing-hutong-breakfast-food-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Beijing is a great place to sample typical Chinese cuisine and gether various kinds of wonderful food from all over the country. Our small group food tour takes you to along the twisting backstreets of Beijing's atmospheric hutong neighborhoods for a breakfast feast. Taste some traditional treats like, steamed buns (called Baozi), fried crepes(call Youbing), silken tofu, etc. Get a full view of the temple-side rooftop from a hip new coffee shop buried in the hutong neighborhood and visit a local market to see what's in season. Just join us and enjoy a delicious breakfast to start your energetic day in Beijing! Tour Highlights Sample more than 10 different delicacies and watch some how to be made. Explore a rarely visited hutong neighborhood to know why locals live for generations. Get into a wet market to learn about the local lifestyle and custom. Small gourp tour with no more than 10 people ensures a personalized experience. The Design of the Day Trip Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Beijing, know the city well and totally a big foodie. Location: Get off the beaten path to find the food where is in Hutongs and only locals know. Trippest Beijing Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tour guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. 9:00 - 10:30 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Fuchengmen Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! Try Beijing's best iconic breakfast staples prepared fresh to order like local yogurt, steamed buns and fried dough sticks in the hidden Hotongs and watch the locals how to prepare them. Youbing and Baozi Salty soybean curd Variety of pastries You can test your adventurous side with Beijing's most popular breakfast dish: fermented soy milk (called Douzhier). This kind of drink is basically unacceptable to anyone except Beijingers due to its unique taste. Breakfast shops in Hutong Douzhier and Jiaoquan Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 10:30 – 12:00 AMVisit Hutong Neighborhood and a Local Market Walk through a residential hutong neighborhood, past temples and markets, and see how the locals live while eating shoulder to shoulder with families who have been enjoying it for generations. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Beijing. Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee and get a temple-side rooftop view from a novel coffee shop hidden in the hutong neighborhood. Full view of Hutong Hutong street Mini market in Hutong Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Our guests in local market Fresh in-season vegetables Price Include: Food and drink. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Beijing is a great place to sample typical Chinese cuisine and gether various kinds of wonderful food from all over the country. Our small group food tour takes you to along the twisting backstreets of Beijing's atmospheric hutong neighborhoods for a breakfast feast. Taste some traditional treats like, steamed buns (called Baozi), fried crepes(call Youbing), silken tofu, etc. Get a full view of the temple-side rooftop from a hip new coffee shop buried in the hutong neighborhood and visit a local market to see what's in season. Just join us and enjoy a delicious breakfast to start your energetic day in Beijing! Beijing is a great place to sample typical Chinese cuisine and gether various kinds of wonderful food from all over the country. Our small group food tour takes you to along the twisting backstreets of Beijing's atmospheric hutong neighborhoods for a breakfast feast. Taste some traditional treats like, steamed buns (called Baozi), fried crepes(call Youbing), silken tofu, etc. Get a full view of the temple-side rooftop from a hip new coffee shop buried in the hutong neighborhood and visit a local market to see what's in season. Just join us and enjoy a delicious breakfast to start your energetic day in Beijing! Tour Highlights Sample more than 10 different delicacies and watch some how to be made. Explore a rarely visited hutong neighborhood to know why locals live for generations. Get into a wet market to learn about the local lifestyle and custom. Small gourp tour with no more than 10 people ensures a personalized experience. • Sample more than 10 different delicacies and watch some how to be made. • Explore a rarely visited hutong neighborhood to know why locals live for generations. • Get into a wet market to learn about the local lifestyle and custom. • Small gourp tour with no more than 10 people ensures a personalized experience. The Design of the Day Trip Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Beijing, know the city well and totally a big foodie. Location: Get off the beaten path to find the food where is in Hutongs and only locals know. Trippest Beijing Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a enjoyable travel experience. The Design of the Day Trip • Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Beijing, know the city well and totally a big foodie. • Location: Get off the beaten path to find the food where is in Hutongs and only locals know. • Trippest Beijing Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice • Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tour guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. 9:00 - 10:30 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Fuchengmen Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! Try Beijing's best iconic breakfast staples prepared fresh to order like local yogurt, steamed buns and fried dough sticks in the hidden Hotongs and watch the locals how to prepare them. Youbing and Baozi Salty soybean curd Variety of pastries You can test your adventurous side with Beijing's most popular breakfast dish: fermented soy milk (called Douzhier). This kind of drink is basically unacceptable to anyone except Beijingers due to its unique taste. Breakfast shops in Hutong Douzhier and Jiaoquan Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 10:30 – 12:00 AMVisit Hutong Neighborhood and a Local Market Walk through a residential hutong neighborhood, past temples and markets, and see how the locals live while eating shoulder to shoulder with families who have been enjoying it for generations. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Beijing. Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee and get a temple-side rooftop view from a novel coffee shop hidden in the hutong neighborhood. Full view of Hutong Hutong street Mini market in Hutong Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Our guests in local market Fresh in-season vegetables Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tour guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. 9:00 - 10:30 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Fuchengmen Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! Try Beijing's best iconic breakfast staples prepared fresh to order like local yogurt, steamed buns and fried dough sticks in the hidden Hotongs and watch the locals how to prepare them. Youbing and Baozi Salty soybean curd Variety of pastries You can test your adventurous side with Beijing's most popular breakfast dish: fermented soy milk (called Douzhier). This kind of drink is basically unacceptable to anyone except Beijingers due to its unique taste. Breakfast shops in Hutong Douzhier and Jiaoquan Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 10:30 – 12:00 AMVisit Hutong Neighborhood and a Local Market Walk through a residential hutong neighborhood, past temples and markets, and see how the locals live while eating shoulder to shoulder with families who have been enjoying it for generations. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Beijing. Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee and get a temple-side rooftop view from a novel coffee shop hidden in the hutong neighborhood. Full view of Hutong Hutong street Mini market in Hutong Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Our guests in local market Fresh in-season vegetables The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tour guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tour guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tour guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. 9:00 - 10:30 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Fuchengmen Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! Try Beijing's best iconic breakfast staples prepared fresh to order like local yogurt, steamed buns and fried dough sticks in the hidden Hotongs and watch the locals how to prepare them. Youbing and Baozi Salty soybean curd Variety of pastries You can test your adventurous side with Beijing's most popular breakfast dish: fermented soy milk (called Douzhier). This kind of drink is basically unacceptable to anyone except Beijingers due to its unique taste. Breakfast shops in Hutong Douzhier and Jiaoquan Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:00 - 10:30 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Fuchengmen Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! Try Beijing's best iconic breakfast staples prepared fresh to order like local yogurt, steamed buns and fried dough sticks in the hidden Hotongs and watch the locals how to prepare them. Youbing and Baozi Salty soybean curd Variety of pastries You can test your adventurous side with Beijing's most popular breakfast dish: fermented soy milk (called Douzhier). This kind of drink is basically unacceptable to anyone except Beijingers due to its unique taste. Breakfast shops in Hutong Douzhier and Jiaoquan Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. The tour will start at 9:00AM at Fuchengmen Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! Try Beijing's best iconic breakfast staples prepared fresh to order like local yogurt, steamed buns and fried dough sticks in the hidden Hotongs and watch the locals how to prepare them. You can test your adventurous side with Beijing's most popular breakfast dish: fermented soy milk (called Douzhier). This kind of drink is basically unacceptable to anyone except Beijingers due to its unique taste. Breakfast shops in Hutong Douzhier and Jiaoquan Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. • Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 10:30 – 12:00 AMVisit Hutong Neighborhood and a Local Market Walk through a residential hutong neighborhood, past temples and markets, and see how the locals live while eating shoulder to shoulder with families who have been enjoying it for generations. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Beijing. Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee and get a temple-side rooftop view from a novel coffee shop hidden in the hutong neighborhood. Full view of Hutong Hutong street Mini market in Hutong Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Our guests in local market Fresh in-season vegetables 10:30 – 12:00 AMVisit Hutong Neighborhood and a Local Market Walk through a residential hutong neighborhood, past temples and markets, and see how the locals live while eating shoulder to shoulder with families who have been enjoying it for generations. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Beijing. Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee and get a temple-side rooftop view from a novel coffee shop hidden in the hutong neighborhood. Full view of Hutong Hutong street Mini market in Hutong Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Our guests in local market Fresh in-season vegetables Walk through a residential hutong neighborhood, past temples and markets, and see how the locals live while eating shoulder to shoulder with families who have been enjoying it for generations. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Beijing. Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee and get a temple-side rooftop view from a novel coffee shop hidden in the hutong neighborhood. Mini market in Hutong Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Our guests in local market Fresh in-season vegetables Price Include: Food and drink. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Food and drink. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Food and drink. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. • Food and drink. • Friendly local English-speaking guide. • Hotel pick-up and drop-off. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 69 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 69 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 69 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20