ID: 73114062cc797041
Title: Beijing hutong cooking class
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/beijing/3-hour-hutong-dumpling-cooking-class.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Jiaozi, are a kind of Chinese dumpling, commonly eaten in China, they are one of the major dishes eaten during the Chinese New Year and year-round in the northern provinces, expecically in Beijing. Hutong, the name given to a narrow alley, or small street between rows of single-storey Siheyuan dwelled by Beijingers in the past. It is one of the most representative icons in local culture and an insight to the old lifestyle of ordinary Beijingers. Taking this three-hour activity to experience local life in Hutong and enjoy your handmade dumplings, then end up this memorial cooking experience with unique photo time. Tour Highlights Hosted by a local hospitable family in Hutong near the Forbidden City. Learn how to make delicious dumplings and more interesting stories behind it.. Go a party with your own hand-made dumplings and local snacks together. The Design of the Day Trip Located: Local family's home in Beijing Hutong near the Forbidden City Chef: Beijingers, grew up in the Hutong courtyard with great English-speaking skills. Professional product team: Analysis on every part of the class to ensure a enjoyable experience. Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support Detailed Itinerary Close All 5:30 PM -6:00 PMMeeting the chef and shopping at a local market. Please get to the meeting point on time. (We will send you the detail adress after you have booked this activity.) Before the cooking class, the chef will lead you to a local market to purchase food material. You will learn about traditional Chinese foods and how to buy groceries. Don't hesitate to sampled food from local vendors if you are interested in, you are very welcome. Buying food material as a local Fresh Vegetable in the market Good to Know: Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:00 PM - 7:00 PMCooking class On the cooking time, the local Beijinger chef will teach you how to make dumplings, also share the culture and family relationships. Happy cooking time Making dumplings seriously Telling the history and culture with the guests Big cooking class and making a friend here 7:00 PM – 8:00 PMEnjoy the party with your handmade Jiaozi Then, it's the party time! Taste delicious dumpling which made by ourselves、local snakes、local beer and drinks, chatting. The chef also will teach you how to use chopsticks. Tasting the Jiaozi you made Happy couple to show their Jiaozi Let's party! Price Include: Cooking class. Fee of dumplings, snacks and drinks. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Group up to 10 people. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour How to get the detail address of the kitchen? The kitchen is at Dong Hua Men Da Jie, Dongcheng Qu, Beijing Shi, China, where is near the Forbidden City. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. Check Availability For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 73 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Jiaozi, are a kind of Chinese dumpling, commonly eaten in China, they are one of the major dishes eaten during the Chinese New Year and year-round in the northern provinces, expecically in Beijing. Hutong, the name given to a narrow alley, or small street between rows of single-storey Siheyuan dwelled by Beijingers in the past. It is one of the most representative icons in local culture and an insight to the old lifestyle of ordinary Beijingers. Taking this three-hour activity to experience local life in Hutong and enjoy your handmade dumplings, then end up this memorial cooking experience with unique photo time. Jiaozi, are a kind of Chinese dumpling, commonly eaten in China, they are one of the major dishes eaten during the Chinese New Year and year-round in the northern provinces, expecically in Beijing. Hutong, the name given to a narrow alley, or small street between rows of single-storey Siheyuan dwelled by Beijingers in the past. It is one of the most representative icons in local culture and an insight to the old lifestyle of ordinary Beijingers. Taking this three-hour activity to experience local life in Hutong and enjoy your handmade dumplings, then end up this memorial cooking experience with unique photo time. Tour Highlights Hosted by a local hospitable family in Hutong near the Forbidden City. Learn how to make delicious dumplings and more interesting stories behind it.. Go a party with your own hand-made dumplings and local snacks together. • Hosted by a local hospitable family in Hutong near the Forbidden City. • Learn how to make delicious dumplings and more interesting stories behind it.. • Go a party with your own hand-made dumplings and local snacks together. The Design of the Day Trip Located: Local family's home in Beijing Hutong near the Forbidden City Chef: Beijingers, grew up in the Hutong courtyard with great English-speaking skills. Professional product team: Analysis on every part of the class to ensure a enjoyable experience. Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support The Design of the Day Trip • Located: Local family's home in Beijing Hutong near the Forbidden City • Chef: Beijingers, grew up in the Hutong courtyard with great English-speaking skills. • Professional product team: Analysis on every part of the class to ensure a enjoyable experience. • Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support Detailed Itinerary Close All 5:30 PM -6:00 PMMeeting the chef and shopping at a local market. Please get to the meeting point on time. (We will send you the detail adress after you have booked this activity.) Before the cooking class, the chef will lead you to a local market to purchase food material. You will learn about traditional Chinese foods and how to buy groceries. Don't hesitate to sampled food from local vendors if you are interested in, you are very welcome. Buying food material as a local Fresh Vegetable in the market Good to Know: Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:00 PM - 7:00 PMCooking class On the cooking time, the local Beijinger chef will teach you how to make dumplings, also share the culture and family relationships. Happy cooking time Making dumplings seriously Telling the history and culture with the guests Big cooking class and making a friend here 7:00 PM – 8:00 PMEnjoy the party with your handmade Jiaozi Then, it's the party time! Taste delicious dumpling which made by ourselves、local snakes、local beer and drinks, chatting. The chef also will teach you how to use chopsticks. Tasting the Jiaozi you made Happy couple to show their Jiaozi Let's party! Close All 5:30 PM -6:00 PMMeeting the chef and shopping at a local market. Please get to the meeting point on time. (We will send you the detail adress after you have booked this activity.) Before the cooking class, the chef will lead you to a local market to purchase food material. You will learn about traditional Chinese foods and how to buy groceries. Don't hesitate to sampled food from local vendors if you are interested in, you are very welcome. Buying food material as a local Fresh Vegetable in the market Good to Know: Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:00 PM - 7:00 PMCooking class On the cooking time, the local Beijinger chef will teach you how to make dumplings, also share the culture and family relationships. Happy cooking time Making dumplings seriously Telling the history and culture with the guests Big cooking class and making a friend here 7:00 PM – 8:00 PMEnjoy the party with your handmade Jiaozi Then, it's the party time! Taste delicious dumpling which made by ourselves、local snakes、local beer and drinks, chatting. The chef also will teach you how to use chopsticks. Tasting the Jiaozi you made Happy couple to show their Jiaozi Let's party! 5:30 PM -6:00 PMMeeting the chef and shopping at a local market. Please get to the meeting point on time. (We will send you the detail adress after you have booked this activity.) Before the cooking class, the chef will lead you to a local market to purchase food material. You will learn about traditional Chinese foods and how to buy groceries. Don't hesitate to sampled food from local vendors if you are interested in, you are very welcome. Buying food material as a local Fresh Vegetable in the market Good to Know: Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 5:30 PM -6:00 PMMeeting the chef and shopping at a local market. Please get to the meeting point on time. (We will send you the detail adress after you have booked this activity.) Before the cooking class, the chef will lead you to a local market to purchase food material. You will learn about traditional Chinese foods and how to buy groceries. Don't hesitate to sampled food from local vendors if you are interested in, you are very welcome. Buying food material as a local Fresh Vegetable in the market Good to Know: Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. Please get to the meeting point on time. (We will send you the detail adress after you have booked this activity.) Before the cooking class, the chef will lead you to a local market to purchase food material. You will learn about traditional Chinese foods and how to buy groceries. Don't hesitate to sampled food from local vendors if you are interested in, you are very welcome. Buying food material as a local Fresh Vegetable in the market • Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:00 PM - 7:00 PMCooking class On the cooking time, the local Beijinger chef will teach you how to make dumplings, also share the culture and family relationships. Happy cooking time Making dumplings seriously Telling the history and culture with the guests Big cooking class and making a friend here 6:00 PM - 7:00 PMCooking class On the cooking time, the local Beijinger chef will teach you how to make dumplings, also share the culture and family relationships. Happy cooking time Making dumplings seriously Telling the history and culture with the guests Big cooking class and making a friend here On the cooking time, the local Beijinger chef will teach you how to make dumplings, also share the culture and family relationships. Making dumplings seriously Telling the history and culture with the guests Big cooking class and making a friend here 7:00 PM – 8:00 PMEnjoy the party with your handmade Jiaozi Then, it's the party time! Taste delicious dumpling which made by ourselves、local snakes、local beer and drinks, chatting. The chef also will teach you how to use chopsticks. Tasting the Jiaozi you made Happy couple to show their Jiaozi Let's party! 7:00 PM – 8:00 PMEnjoy the party with your handmade Jiaozi Then, it's the party time! Taste delicious dumpling which made by ourselves、local snakes、local beer and drinks, chatting. The chef also will teach you how to use chopsticks. Tasting the Jiaozi you made Happy couple to show their Jiaozi Let's party! Then, it's the party time! Taste delicious dumpling which made by ourselves、local snakes、local beer and drinks, chatting. The chef also will teach you how to use chopsticks. Tasting the Jiaozi you made Happy couple to show their Jiaozi Price Include: Cooking class. Fee of dumplings, snacks and drinks. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Group up to 10 people. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Cooking class. Fee of dumplings, snacks and drinks. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Group up to 10 people. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Cooking class. Fee of dumplings, snacks and drinks. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Group up to 10 people. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. • Cooking class. • Fee of dumplings, snacks and drinks. • Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. • Group up to 10 people. • Hotel pick-up and drop-off. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour How to get the detail address of the kitchen? The kitchen is at Dong Hua Men Da Jie, Dongcheng Qu, Beijing Shi, China, where is near the Forbidden City. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. How to get the detail address of the kitchen? The kitchen is at Dong Hua Men Da Jie, Dongcheng Qu, Beijing Shi, China, where is near the Forbidden City. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. How to get the detail address of the kitchen? The kitchen is at Dong Hua Men Da Jie, Dongcheng Qu, Beijing Shi, China, where is near the Forbidden City. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. The kitchen is at Dong Hua Men Da Jie, Dongcheng Qu, Beijing Shi, China, where is near the Forbidden City. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 73 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 73 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 73 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20