ID: 169ac262f5ca3faf
Title: Beijing Shougang Park: How to Visit, Things to Do, and How to Get There
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/beijing/attraction/shougang-park.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Beijing Shougang Park not only epitomizes China's steel industry but is also a successful example of urban renewal in China. Nowadays, Shougang Park integrates industrial, Winter Olympics, and innovation culture, transforming into a vibrant new cultural landmark of China's capital. This article covers the things to do, visiting methods, and transportation to help you plan your tour. • What to Do and See • How to Visit • Best Times • How to Get There What to Do and See in Beijing Shougang Park In this section, you could discover the most classic attractions and what to do. Explore Cyberpunk-Style Industrial Ruins The four blast furnaces and cooling towers are the best places for you to take cyberpunk-style photos. The Third Blast Furnace The Third Blast Furnace is not to be missed among the four blast furnaces because its historical relics and industrial style are the most intact. The 107-meter-high (351-foot-high) blast furnace and its matching crisscrossing pipes could easily turn you into a photography master. Recommended shooting angles: Xiuchi The intersection of Xiuchi North Road North side of the First Blast Furnace Recommended shooting angles: • Xiuchi • The intersection of Xiuchi North Road • North side of the First Blast Furnace The cooling towers' massive cylindrical structures and unique vent designs are full of industrial beauty, and their concrete texture offers a strong visual impact for your photos. When there are special events or festivals, there may be projection shows on the cooling towers, turning them into dynamic art canvases. Recommended shooting angles: Skywalk Bottom of the cooling towers Recommended shooting angles: • Skywalk • Bottom of the cooling towers Shopping, Eating, and Playing In addition to looking at cyberpunk-style buildings, you could also enjoy many entertainment activities there. If you want to have fun, SoReal Science Fiction Paradise is recommended. With mostly VR experiences, each of the floors has a play experience that could be played all day long. You would feel like you are at the junction of reality and virtuality. If you are interested in cars or take your children with you, the park offers a great opportunity to experience a driverless car. This project has fixed areas, routes, and stations in the park. You only need to select the departure and destination on the phone to experience the advancement of technology. If you want to take a break and have a bite to eat, there are some popular restaurants and cafés there, such as the Shougang Grand Canteen, the Chaganger Restaurant, Xiang Paifang, and Peet's Coffee. During holidays or large-scale events, there would be long queues or you could have a picnic by the lake instead. If you want to shop, you could go to Liugong Hui Shopping Plaza and Shougang Cultural and Creative Store, etc. There are also weekend markets and other occasional markets there, including crafts, books, food, etc. Go and see if there is anything you like that you want to take away. Explore the Sites of the Beijing Winter Olympics Big Air Shougang and the Winter Olympic Ring are the buildings with the most Winter Olympics elements. The curved modern design and gradient colors of Big Air Shougang contrast sharply with the cold gray tones of the surrounding cooling towers, oxygen production main plant, and other old industrial buildings, offering a focal point for your photography. Big Air Shougang and the city skyline in the distance form a spectacular picture, especially with a sunset and its afterglow, offering an excellent background for your photos. Recommended photo angles: Qunming Lake Plank Road Skywalk New Shougang Bridge Recommended photo angles: • Qunming Lake Plank Road • Skywalk • New Shougang Bridge The Winter Olympic Ring has a huge red circular spiral staircase. Its unique architectural form and structural details could offer many perspectives and creative ideas when you shoot photos. We recommend taking photos in the morning or afternoon on a sunny day and using a wide-angle lens so that you could capture a stronger sense of light and shadow. Recommended photo angles: The stairwell near the top floor facing the cooling towers Shoot from the top floor facing down Shoot from the ground entrance facing up Recommended photo angles: • The stairwell near the top floor facing the cooling towers • Shoot from the top floor facing down • Shoot from the ground entrance facing up Enjoy the Lakes and Hills If you love nature, you could also visit lakes and hills. If you like to have a lively time or want to go boating, we recommend Qunming Lake near the south gate, surrounded by Big Air Shougang, cooling towers, Liugong Hui, and skywalks. If you want to enjoy some quiet leisure time, we recommend Xiuchi Lake near the north gate, as the lake is smaller and more natural. You could get away from the urban hustle and bustle there, and see the blast furnaces in the distance. If you want to climb hills, you could go to Shijingshan. At only 183.7 meters (603 feet) above sea level, it could be reached in 15–20 minutes. Gongbei Pavilion is on the hill and on its third floor, you could have a cup of coffee and a panoramic view of Shougang Park. Main attractions of Beijing Shougang Park You could enter from the small west gate, north gate, east gate, or south gate. You could walk to enjoy the scenery along the way. Or, if you want to take it easy, there are many shared bicycles in the park for you to ride. You could visit the most classic attractions in half a day on foot. The following route is recommended. • South gate → McDonald's → Big Air Shougang → Winter Olympic Ring → Skywalk → Qunming Lake → Liugong Hui → the Fourth Blast Furnace → the Third Blast Furnace → the First Blast Furnace → the Second Blast Furnace → north gate If you have extra time, consider climbing Shijingshan. The following route is recommended. • Small west gate → Xiuchi West Road → Shijingshan → Winter Olympic Ring → Big Air Shougang → McDonald's → Qunming Lake → Liugong Hui → the Fourth Blast Furnace → the Third Blast Furnace → the First Blast Furnace → the Second Blast Furnace → Starbucks → north gate If you like cycling, you could explore the highlights in half a day. The following route is recommended. • East gate → the Second Blast Furnace → the First Blast Furnace → the Third Blast Furnace → Xiuchi → Winter Olympic Ring → Big Air Shougang → McDonald's → south gate If time permits, you could also ride a bike to Qunming Lake to take photos and visit Liugong Hui. The following route is recommended. • Small west gate → Xiuchi North Road → the Third Blast Furnace → the First Blast Furnace → the Second Blast Furnace → the Fourth Blast Furnace → Liugong Hui → Qunming Lake → McDonald's → Big Air Shougang → Winter Olympic Ring → small west gate Considering the need for long rides or walks, cool and pleasant spring and autumn are the best times. Autumn in particular is the most beautiful time of year in Beijing, with the best natural scenery. In summer, we recommend arriving after 4pm to avoid the heat of the day. At night, Shougang Park would light up, and the lights would be reflected on the lake, allowing you to appreciate a different beauty from that during the day. If you are interested in snow and ice sports, winter may be a good choice. You could skate on Qunming Lake and Xiuchi Lake. Christmas and New Year Holiday Events During the Christmas season, Shangri-La Hotel would have big Christmas trees and decorations, and you could take beautiful photos there. If you visit at the end of December, you could consider attending the New Year's Eve event, which would include a New Year's Eve market, a light show, and a New Year's countdown, welcoming the new year with the locals in a festive atmosphere. Recommended Beijing Tours 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Educational Tour 5-Day Beijing Family Tour 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Free feel to contact us if you would like to add the Shougang Park to your itinerary. Recommended Beijing Tours • 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Educational Tour • 5-Day Beijing Family Tour • 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Free feel to contact us if you would like to add the Shougang Park to your itinerary. You could get to Shougang Park via public transportation or a taxi. Public transportation includes the subway and buses. Both types usually take 1½ hours to get from downtown Beijing to Shougang Park and may require a transfer. If you don't like crowds and want to get there quickly and directly, taxis are recommended. If you want to save time and effort or have children or the elderly traveling with you, you could book our customized tour, including private transfers. We would tailor a relaxing and leisurely trip for you based on your needs. Just contact us. > 14-Day Beijing–Dunhuang–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie China Cultural and Natural Beauty Tour 14-Day Beijing–Dunhuang–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie China Cultural and Natural Beauty Tour 14-Day Beijing–Dunhuang–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie China Cultural and Natural Beauty Tour