ID: 2c4d7b6185d4cb88
Title: Jiuzhaigou Weather in October: Best Viewing Spots and Travel Tips
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/jiuzhaigou/weather/october.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-08-25T00:00:00
================================================================================

Weather: In October, Jiuzhaigou gradually cools down to 8-19°C (46-66°F). It's cool during the night, but chilly in the mornings and evenings. By late October, the temperature can drop below zero degrees, and you may see some snowfall and freezing lakes. There are still around 22 rainy days. A light mist often lingers over Jiuzhaigou's mountains and forests, but it won't affect your view, and actually makes your photos look better. Clothing: Dress in layers, such as long sleeves, sweaters, and long pants as a base, with a windbreaker or light down jacket on top, as well as a hat. You can take off the outer layer at midday when it's warmer. Altitude Sickness: The altitude at Huanglong-Jiuzhai station and along the road to Jiuzhaigou is around 3,000–3,500m, which is higher than inside Jiuzhaigou itself (2,000–3,000m). You may experience mild altitude sickness. Take precautions if you have high blood pressure, heart disease, or other medical issues. Walk downhill instead of uphill to avoid overexertion. October in Jiuzhaigou: Most Beautiful, Most Crowded October is peak season in Jiuzhaigou. Crowds, airfares, and hotel rates are all double higher than usual, and tickets for the scenic area and bullet trains are hard to secure. At the same time, late October is Jiuzhaigou's most stunning season for colorful forests. You'll see vibrant autumn foliage with lakes still brimming and clear. Date Range Crowd Level Estimated Visitors Scenery Oct 1-6 Very Crowded (National Day Holiday) 41,000 (full) Mostly green Oct 7-10 Less Crowded (just after the holiday) Around 15,000 Still mainly green Oct 11-24 Crowded 35,000+ Some trees start changing colors, but not at peak yet Oct 25-31 Crowded 35,000+ Most colorful autumn leaves Forest color changes in Jiuzhaigou from early to mid to late October So if you're going just for the scenery, October is the best time to visit Jiuzhaigou. No matter when you come, the views will be stunning. To avoid the busiest crowds, you can visit around October 7–10. But if you want to see Jiuzhaigou's peak autumn colors, October 25–31 is the best time. Private guides and drivers are often fully booked in this month, so I suggest you book at least 2 months in advance. Start your 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour with us! Best Photo Spots in Jiuzhaigou in October No matter whether you're photographing the autumn leaves or the scenery before the colors change, the following spots are very photogenic. 1. Five Flower Lake This is one of Jiuzhaigou's most iconic viewpoints, surrounded by mountains on three sides, so that you can admire the most layered and colorful autumn forests here. Jiuzhaigou, Five Flower Lake There are also 9 viewing platforms, and you can enjoy the most photo spots and capture autumn scenery from many different angles. Five Flower Lake with different viewing platforms Photo tip: The best time is between 10 am and 12 pm, when direct sunlight creates shimmering spots on the water, like peacock feathers. 2. Shuzheng Lakes Here you can enjoy and photograph the colorful "palette" in Jiuzhaigou. By late October, the autumn forest and 19 small lakes intertwine, creating a uniquely striking scene. Shuzheng Lakes You'll also see that Shuzheng Lakes flow into Nuorilang Waterfall. Both are must-see highlights of Jiuzhaigou, as well as popular photo spots, and you can visit them together. Nuorilang Waterfall with Shuzheng Lakes above Photo tip: The Shuzheng Viewing Platform is best for a panoramic view of Shuzheng Lakes. You can take the shuttle bus to Shuzheng Village, cross the road and climb for about 5 minutes to reach. And Shuzheng Lakes is great for photos at any time of the day. 3. Mirror Lake Although Mirror Lake isn't as rich in layers as Five Flower Lake, on sunny days, you can see the autumn forest perfectly reflected on its surface, just like a mirror. Mirror Lake Photo tip: Mirror Lake is great for photos in wind-free moments. While passing by on a shuttle bus, you can check if the lake's surface is smooth. If it is, get off and take your shots. 4. Pearl Shoal Waterfall In October, Pearl Shoal Waterfall still has a good flow. While walking along the wooden boardwalk, you can also enjoy the red maple scenery. Pearl Shoal Waterfall Photo tip: Visit between 10 am and 2 pm for the best light, when the sun hits the waterfall just right. 5. Rhinoceros Lake The water here is deep blue or Tiffany blue, creating high-contrast scenery with golden or fiery-red autumn leaves, and you can also see clear reflections. Many visitors skip this spot due to limited time or fatigue. If you're looking for a quieter place to enjoy the view and take photos, Rhinoceros Lake is a great choice. Photo tip: 12–2 pm is ideal. You can walk to the inner-loop boardwalk to avoid the backlight, which may affect your photos. Two Photography Tips Apply to the Whole Jiuzhaigou: Bring a polarizing filter to reduce reflections on the water. Early morning (7–9 am) is best for capturing mist, while late afternoon (4–5 pm) is ideal for sunset shots. Book early for the best prices and excellent hotels. Check out our 3-Day Jiuzhaigou and Huanglong Highlights Tour for an unforgettable autumn experience! Jiuzhaigou Travel Tips for October: Start early: Depart at 6 am and enter the scenic area at 7:30 am when it opens. That way, you can visit some attractions before the crowds arrive, giving you more quiet time to explore. Visit off-peak: Enter after 9:30 am to avoid long lines for the shuttle bus, and you're more likely to find a seat. This time is ideal if you only want to see the highlights of Jiuzhaigou. Bring your own lunch: Prepare some instant food like bread or fruits in advance. You can skip the only dining spot, Nuorilang Center, saving time and avoiding crowds. Flexible ticketing: If you can't get train tickets to Huanglong Jiuzhaigou Station, consider buying tickets to Songpan or Huangshengguan instead. They are also only 1–2.5 hours by car to Jiuzhaigou or Huanglong. Book accommodation early: We recommend reserving your hotel 2 months in advance to ensure availability of your preferred hotel or room type. Forest color changes in Jiuzhaigou from early to mid to late October So if you're going just for the scenery, October is the best time to visit Jiuzhaigou. No matter when you come, the views will be stunning. To avoid the busiest crowds, you can visit around October 7–10. But if you want to see Jiuzhaigou's peak autumn colors, October 25–31 is the best time. Private guides and drivers are often fully booked in this month, so I suggest you book at least 2 months in advance. Start your 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour with us! Private guides and drivers are often fully booked in this month, so I suggest you book at least 2 months in advance. Start your 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour with us! Best Photo Spots in Jiuzhaigou in October No matter whether you're photographing the autumn leaves or the scenery before the colors change, the following spots are very photogenic. This is one of Jiuzhaigou's most iconic viewpoints, surrounded by mountains on three sides, so that you can admire the most layered and colorful autumn forests here. Jiuzhaigou, Five Flower Lake There are also 9 viewing platforms, and you can enjoy the most photo spots and capture autumn scenery from many different angles. Five Flower Lake with different viewing platforms Photo tip: The best time is between 10 am and 12 pm, when direct sunlight creates shimmering spots on the water, like peacock feathers. Photo tip: The best time is between 10 am and 12 pm, when direct sunlight creates shimmering spots on the water, like peacock feathers. Here you can enjoy and photograph the colorful "palette" in Jiuzhaigou. By late October, the autumn forest and 19 small lakes intertwine, creating a uniquely striking scene. You'll also see that Shuzheng Lakes flow into Nuorilang Waterfall. Both are must-see highlights of Jiuzhaigou, as well as popular photo spots, and you can visit them together. Nuorilang Waterfall with Shuzheng Lakes above Photo tip: The Shuzheng Viewing Platform is best for a panoramic view of Shuzheng Lakes. You can take the shuttle bus to Shuzheng Village, cross the road and climb for about 5 minutes to reach. And Shuzheng Lakes is great for photos at any time of the day. Photo tip: The Shuzheng Viewing Platform is best for a panoramic view of Shuzheng Lakes. You can take the shuttle bus to Shuzheng Village, cross the road and climb for about 5 minutes to reach. And Shuzheng Lakes is great for photos at any time of the day. Although Mirror Lake isn't as rich in layers as Five Flower Lake, on sunny days, you can see the autumn forest perfectly reflected on its surface, just like a mirror. Photo tip: Mirror Lake is great for photos in wind-free moments. While passing by on a shuttle bus, you can check if the lake's surface is smooth. If it is, get off and take your shots. Photo tip: Mirror Lake is great for photos in wind-free moments. While passing by on a shuttle bus, you can check if the lake's surface is smooth. If it is, get off and take your shots. 4. Pearl Shoal Waterfall In October, Pearl Shoal Waterfall still has a good flow. While walking along the wooden boardwalk, you can also enjoy the red maple scenery. Pearl Shoal Waterfall Photo tip: Visit between 10 am and 2 pm for the best light, when the sun hits the waterfall just right. Photo tip: Visit between 10 am and 2 pm for the best light, when the sun hits the waterfall just right. The water here is deep blue or Tiffany blue, creating high-contrast scenery with golden or fiery-red autumn leaves, and you can also see clear reflections. Many visitors skip this spot due to limited time or fatigue. If you're looking for a quieter place to enjoy the view and take photos, Rhinoceros Lake is a great choice. Photo tip: 12–2 pm is ideal. You can walk to the inner-loop boardwalk to avoid the backlight, which may affect your photos. Photo tip: 12–2 pm is ideal. You can walk to the inner-loop boardwalk to avoid the backlight, which may affect your photos. Two Photography Tips Apply to the Whole Jiuzhaigou: • Bring a polarizing filter to reduce reflections on the water. • Early morning (7–9 am) is best for capturing mist, while late afternoon (4–5 pm) is ideal for sunset shots. Book early for the best prices and excellent hotels. Check out our 3-Day Jiuzhaigou and Huanglong Highlights Tour for an unforgettable autumn experience! Book early for the best prices and excellent hotels. Check out our 3-Day Jiuzhaigou and Huanglong Highlights Tour for an unforgettable autumn experience! Jiuzhaigou Travel Tips for October: Start early: Depart at 6 am and enter the scenic area at 7:30 am when it opens. That way, you can visit some attractions before the crowds arrive, giving you more quiet time to explore. Visit off-peak: Enter after 9:30 am to avoid long lines for the shuttle bus, and you're more likely to find a seat. This time is ideal if you only want to see the highlights of Jiuzhaigou. Bring your own lunch: Prepare some instant food like bread or fruits in advance. You can skip the only dining spot, Nuorilang Center, saving time and avoiding crowds. Flexible ticketing: If you can't get train tickets to Huanglong Jiuzhaigou Station, consider buying tickets to Songpan or Huangshengguan instead. They are also only 1–2.5 hours by car to Jiuzhaigou or Huanglong. Book accommodation early: We recommend reserving your hotel 2 months in advance to ensure availability of your preferred hotel or room type. Popular Jiuzhaigou Tours If you're interested in visiting the fairyland in person, why not browse our popular tours below for inspiration? • 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour • 4-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhai Tour with Tibetan Photo Shoot • 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour Jiuzhaigou Weather by Month • Jiuzhaigou Weather in January • Jiuzhaigou Weather in February • Jiuzhaigou Weather in March • Jiuzhaigou Weather in April • Jiuzhaigou Weather in May • Jiuzhaigou Weather in June • Jiuzhaigou Weather in July • Jiuzhaigou Weather in August • Jiuzhaigou Weather in September • Jiuzhaigou Weather in October • Jiuzhaigou Weather in November • Jiuzhaigou Weather in December