ID: 2303c1b237d822b7
Title: The Top 5 Trade Fairs in China — HUGE must-see exhibitions
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/article-top-trade-fairs.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The top 5 trade shows of China are the Canton Fair, Yiwu Trade Fair, Beijing Auto Show, the Bauma Fair, and the Shanghai Import and Export Commodity Fair. They have great influence, and are becoming increasingly important as China's economy grows and Chinese technology improves. People from all over the world attend them. Chinese trade fairs are becoming increasingly important as the size of the economy increases and the technology level improves. Hundreds of thousands of business people attend these five conferences from basically every country in the world hoping to buy or sell needed products and scouting for business opportunities. Our information about China's top five trade shows includes dates, featured products, location, cost, attendance, transportation, tour suggestions, things to do in each city, and weather information. 1) The Canton Fair (China Import and Export Fair) Guangzhou Pazhou International Exhibition Center • Featured products: almost everything. • Dates for 2025: The Spring Session: April 15–19 (Phase 1), April 23–27 (Phase 2), May 1–5 (Phase 3); The Autumn Session: October 15–19 (Phase 1), October 23–27 (Phase 2), Oct. 31 – Nov. 4 (Phase 3) • Exhibitors: about 24,000 per session and 60,000 booths • Attendance: about 204,000 buyers per session. There are usually a few thousand more people attending the spring than the fall session. More than half the attenders are from other Asian countries. • Address: China Import and Export Fair Complex, 380 Yuejiang Middle Road, Guangzhou • Call center: The Chinese Mainland: 4000-888-999 Outside the Chinese Mainland: 86-20-28-888-999 Hong Kong representative office: (852) 28771318 The Canton Fair (广交会) is a national fair and is China's biggest trade fair. They feature basically every type of industrial product from electronics to automobiles in Phase 1, consumer goods and gifts in Phase 2, and clothing, medicines, and recreational products in Phase 3. The event is held twice annually in the Spring and Autumn. Though most of the buyers are from other Asian countries, buyers from the Europe, the US, and Russia each make up about 10% or more of the buyers. It is designed to be an international event with multiple language assistance for the people from 200 countries. China Highlights' private transport service Getting there: The Pazhou complex is conveniently located on Pazhou Island in southeast Guangzhou. Travel to the complex by taxi, hotel shuttle bus, subway, or our drivers. Most Guangzhou hotels offer free shuttle buses during the Canton Fair, however the shuttle bus timetable is very limited and there is little choice. The subway is a very good choice to get to the Pazhou Complex and provides good access almost anywhere in Guangzhou. Canton Fair Metro Map: Xingangdong (新港东站) and Pazhou (琶洲站) on Metro line 8 are the two nearest metro stations to the Canton Fair venue. • Taxi: Here is the address in Chinese for a taxi driver: 广州国际会议展览中心, 广州市海珠区阅江中路382号. • Private tour: The most pleasant, direct, and interesting way to go to the Canton Fair is with a private tour company such as ours. Our tours are known for being hassle free and individualized for our customers. You can save time and money too. We can find discounts and arrange for interpreter services, etc. Climate: The fair is usually held in the months of April and October. Other than for the fair, April isn't a high travel and tourism month which makes things easier for hosting the conference. The weather is damp and rainy with cool nights. October is a high tourism month, but the warm and sunny weather is comfortable for the exposition attenders. Recommended Attraction For fair attenders, we suggest a relaxing Pearl River cruise and dinner on a river boat. See the colorful lights and architectural wonders of Guangzhou while you relax after a tiring day at the fair. • Suggested itinerary: Essence of Guangzhou and Shenzhen Tour 2) The Yiwu Commdities Fair Yiwu International Trade City District 1 • Featured products: all types of consumer goods • Dates for 2025: October 21-24. During the rest of the year, hundreds of thousands of sellers sell at the several main market areas. • Exhibitors: about 2,500 booths at the Yiwu International Commodities Fair. Hundreds of thousands of other sellers at the main market areas. • Attendance: about 200,000 buyers for the October fair. About 24,000 of these buyers are foreign from almost all countries. • Location and address: Yiwu International Expo Center: No. 59 Zongze Road, Yiwu, Zhejiang • Call center: +86-579-85415888 E-mail: trade@yiwufair.com; service@yiwufair.com The four other trade fairs are temporary, but the Yiwu Trade Fair (义博会) is a permanent fair targeted for small buyers from all over the world looking to buy wholesale products at the lowest prices. The price are a little lower than at Guangzhou. In addition to the permanent trade market, many annual exhibitions of various categories of products attract more buyers and exhibitors to Yiwu City. The International Trade City, also called China Commodities City, or simply Yiwu Market, is the biggest of the Yiwu market places. It has as many as 70,000 booths with 100,000 sellers representing factories all over China. It measures 4,000,000 square meters or 43,000,000 square feet. The biggest of the annual fairs is the annual Yiwu International Commodities Fair (中国义乌进口商品博览会) at the International Exhibition Center. It is in October. Goods from tens of thousands of Chinese factories are displayed. Yiwu attracts tens of thousands of Africans, South Asians, and Southeast Asians with suitcases looking for consumer products to sell in their own countries. Anyone could go there and shop, and the prices and variety is the best in the world. • See Hangzhou/Yiwu from Shanghai by Bullet Train • Taxi: Here is the address in Chinese for the October exposition for a taxi driver: 义乌国际博览中心, 59号宗泽路，浙江省义乌市 • Private tour: We can facilitate your visit to the main Yiwu Commodities Fair or to any of the many other fairs or the major permanent market site. Tell us how we can help, and we'll also arrange accommodations, tours, and meals if needed. See our recommended Yiwu Fair hotels. Recommended Attraction For fair visitors and shoppers, we suggest the ancient Iron Tower for a local sightseeing excursion. 3) Beijing International Auto Show • Featured products: automobiles and accessories • Dates for 2025: TBC • Exhibitors: about 2,000 • Attendance: about 800,000 visitors • Location and address: 88 Yuxiang Road, Tianzhu Airport Industrial Road, Shunyi District, Beijing The Beijing Auto Show (北京国际汽车展览会) is a national automobile exhibition featuring vehicles from virtually every major company in the world. It is China's largest automobile show, and one of the top four in the world. For Chinese wanting to compare and buy products and for foreigners wishing to source vehicles, parts and accessories, it is very important to attend. China already has the world's biggest auto industry, and it is expected that the size of the market might double within ten years and be bigger than that of the US, Canada, Europe, Russia and Japan combined. The market size and potential and the low prices makes the show increasingly important. Getting there: The Beijing International Exhibition Centre (NCIEC) is in the Shunyi District only about 30 kilometers away from the Forbidden City and other central Beijing attractions. • Airport: The Beijing Capital International Airport is only about two kilometers away. • Metro: Take Metro Line 15 to NCIEC. • Taxi: Here is the address in Chinese for a taxi driver: 新中国国际展览中心, 北京顺义区天竺空港工业区玉香路88号. • Private tour: We could facilitate your visit and provide transportation and logistical aid. Tell us how we can help, and we'll also arrange accommodations, tours, and meals if needed. The Great Wall at Beijing Climate: The fair is usually held in the month of April when you'll still need a coat because the nights are cold and the days are cool. Recommended Attraction For auto show attenders, we suggest taking the chance while in Beijing to see the ancient wonders such as the Forbidden City. We could help you tour the sites. • See Beijing tours —International Trade Fair for Construction Machinery, Building Material Machines, Construction Vehicles, and Equipment Huangpu River night cruise in Pudong • Featured products: construction machinery and equipment, building materials • Dates for 2025: Every two years. November 26-29, 2025 • Exhibitors: about 3,000. 2,000 are Chinese. • Attendance: almost 200,000. People came from about 150 countries. • Location and address: 2345 Long Yang Road, Pudong Area, Shanghai • Call center: (+86 21) 2020 5500 The Bauma Fair (中国国际工程机械，建材机械，矿山机械、工程车辆及设备博览会or上海宝马展for short) is a national trade fair for China's construction industry and construction related companies. China has the largest construction industry by far, so this is a very important trade show. It is Asia's biggest construction trade fair. They feature basically every type of construction equipment. Shanghai New International Expo Centre Getting there: The Shanghai New International Expo Centre (SNIEC) complex is conveniently located in the Pudong business district (CBD). So it is near the Shanghai World Financial Centre, the Shanghai Tower, and plush hotels in Pudong. Travel to the complex by taxi, hotel shuttle bus, subway, or our drivers. • Metro: Line 7 goes to the Huamu Road Station by the complex. • Taxi: Here is the address in Chinese for a taxi driver: 上海新国际博览中心, 龙阳路2345号，浦东新区，上海 • Private tour: The most pleasant, direct, and interesting way to go to the Bauma is with a private tour company such as ours. Our tours are known for being hassle free and individualized for our customers. You can save time and money too. We can find discounts. We can arrange for interpreter service and other aid. Climate: The fair is usually held in the month of November. Expect fine, cool, dry weather ideal for attending the exposition and for touring. The foliage is beautiful, and you want want to see the autumn leaves at Century Park. November is a high tourism month when foreign tour groups flock inbound. So finding accommodations is more difficult for those attending the Export Commodities Fair. We can arrange accommodations and travel tickets. Recommended Attraction For fair attenders, we suggest a relaxing Huangpu River cruise and dinner on a river boat. See the colorful lights and architectural wonders of Shanghai while you relax after a tiring day at the fair. • See Shanghai tours 5) East China Import and Export Commodity Fair (ECF) Pudong lights up at night • Featured products: clothes, textiles, consumer goods, gifts, art • Dates for 2025: July 12-15 • Location and address: 2345 Long Yang Road, Pudong Area, Shanghai, 201204, China • Call center: 021-60170386 The Shanghai Import and Export Commodity Fair (中国华东进出口商品交易会) is the biggest of the regional fairs. Eastern China provinces and cities sponsor the annual event. Buyers come from about 100 countries. Getting there: The trade show is in the big New International Expo Center complex (SNIEC) in Pudong. So it is within convenient distance of major hotels and corporate offices. Travel to the complex by taxi, hotel shuttle bus, subway, or our drivers. • Metro: Take Line 7 to the Huamu Road Station at the conference site. • Taxi: Here is the address in Chinese for a taxi driver: 上海浦东新国际博览中心, 上海市浦东新区龙阳路2345号 • Private tour: The most pleasant, direct, and interesting way to go to the Canton Fair is with a private tour company such as ours. We can individualize your trip, save your time and money, and arrange accommodations, tours, and meals as needed. Climate: The fair is held in March. It is often windy, and nights are cold. The days are cool. But it isn't freezing. Recommended Attraction We suggest a relaxing Huangpu River cruise and dinner on a river boat. See the colorful lights and architectural wonders of Shanghai in the evening during your visit. • See Shanghai tours Recommended China Tour Packages Enjoy the best of Shanghai and China's nearby Yellow Mountains alongside a trade fair. Both the Bauma Fair and the ECF are held in Shanghai, and Yiwu is only 100 km south of Hangzhou, 3 hours from the Yellow Mountains. Escape the city for some fresh mountain air and inspiring scenery! • 5-Day Shanghai, Hangzhou and Suzhou Bullet Train Tour • 4-Day Escape to Huangshan (the Yellow Mountains) from Shanghai or Hangzhou We are China's best at customizing China tours for foreign travelers. We could help facilitate your trade fair visit and sightseeing. Vist the places you want to as we help you create your own dream trip.