ID: 3c0c5f90f9e0d516
Title: Xi'an Small Wild Goose Pagoda: a Complete Visiting Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xian/attraction/small-wild-goose-pagoda.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Small Wild Goose Pagoda is located in Jianfu Temple, which is 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) south of the downtown area. It is well-known for its "Morning Bell Chimes", which used to be one of the eight famous scenic attractions in Xi'an. For your Xi'an trip, I highly recommend visiting the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. Every time I go there, I can feel the serene atmosphere, the ancient environment, and the solemnity of Buddhism. Whenever I see the ancient pagoda standing firm for over a thousand years, I always feel the miracle of history. Basic facts about Small Wild Goose Pagoda: • Opening hours: 8am–5pm • Ticket price: free to enter • Reservation to visit: Yes, Small Wild Goose Pagoda can be reserved through its official WeChat account. Generally, reservations can be made 6 days in advance. • Height: 15 stories and it is about 45 meters (148 feet) above the ground • Recommended visiting time: 1½–2 hours • Location: 72, West Friendship Road, Beilin District, Xi'an Ken Zhu 20+ Years as a Local Guide in Xi'an Hi, I'm Ken. I've lived in Xi'an for more than 20 years, having arrived in 1999 to study. During my college years, I fell in love with Xi'an's rich history and vibrant culture. After graduation, I chose to stay and become a cultural ambassador, sharing the city's attractions and culinary delights with international visitors. My goal is to help everyone discover the magic of Xi'an and fall in love with it, just as I did. 20+ Years as a Local Guide in Xi'an Hi, I'm Ken. I've lived in Xi'an for more than 20 years, having arrived in 1999 to study. During my college years, I fell in love with Xi'an's rich history and vibrant culture. After graduation, I chose to stay and become a cultural ambassador, sharing the city's attractions and culinary delights with international visitors. My goal is to help everyone discover the magic of Xi'an and fall in love with it, just as I did. • Why Was It Built? • What to See • Should I Visit Big Wild Goose Pagoda or It? • What Is Inside It? • Best Time • Transportation • What to Do Around It Why Was Small Wild Goose Pagoda Built? Small Wild Goose Pagoda Small Wild Goose Pagoda was built in 707 AD. The story goes that when the great monk Yi Jing returned from India, the birthplace of Buddhism, and appealed to the imperial court for funds to build a pagoda to preserve the holy Buddhist scriptures, the cowardly Emperor Li Xian asked the Empress for advice as he often did. When she heard of this, she ordered all the imperial concubines and court maids to donate money for the construction of the pagoda. The ladies were so generous in their donations that there was still money left over even after the project was completed. In Xi'an, there is another famous pagoda, Big Wild Goose Pagoda, which was built in 652 AD. Small Wild Goose Pagoda was built in 707 AD, 55 years after Big Wild Goose Pagoda. Small Wild Goose Pagoda is shorter than the latter so the local people named it Small Wild Goose Pagoda. What to See in the Small Wild Goose Pagoda Area It Includes three parts: the pagoda, Jianfu Temple, and Xi'an Museum. Admire the Thousand-Year-Old Ancient Pagoda The first one, of course, is this thousand-year-old ancient pagoda of the Tang Dynasty, which has a history of more than 1,300 years. There, you could also see three towering ancient sophora trees. They were planted at the beginning of the construction of the Small Wild Goose Pagoda and are now ancient trees under protection by the Xi'an Municipal Government. Each one has its unique number. Ring the Huge Bell Inside Jianfu Temple Inside Jianfu Temple, there is a huge iron bell, which dates back to the Jin Dynasty (1192 AD). The sound of the bell is crisp and pleasant and can be heard as far as 5 kilometers (3 miles) away. Locals often call it the "Magic Bell". It is 4.5 meters (15 feet) in height, has a 19 cm (7.4 in) circumference along the rim, and weighs 10 tons. The bell is carved with a Chinese verse, which means in English, "Long live the Emperor", "The vassals will help him forever", "May the state be stable and the people live in peace", and "May the Buddhist spirits prevail forever". It is said that if one missed his beloved relations who were far away from him, the only thing he needed to do was to write their names and addresses on a piece of yellow paper and the sound of the bell would pass the message to them. Nowadays, tourists can still ring the bell there to pray for blessings. Our guests ring the bell Join Local Citizens Doing Morning Exercises In the garden of Jianfu Temple, some citizens still do morning exercises. Some of them practice tai chi and some dance. It's a lively scene of life. Locals are playing musical instruments Xi'an Museum, next to Jianfu Temple, is another good place to visit. It houses many exquisite cultural relics from different dynasties and is definitely worth visiting. Should I Visit Big Wild Goose Pagoda or Small Wild Goose Pagoda? Big Wild Goose Pagoda Whether it's Big Wild Goose Pagoda or Small Wild Goose Pagoda, they are both worth visiting when you have enough time because they have distinct styles and reflect different architectural styles of the Tang Dynasty. If you are in a hurry and are more interested in cultural relics, then go to Small Wild Goose Pagoda because it is in the same place as Xi'an Museum. You could enjoy both the ancient pagoda and the cultural relics. Personally, I prefer Small Wild Goose Pagoda. It is a genuine ancient pagoda left over from the Tang Dynasty. Moreover, there are numerous famous steles and towering ancient trees at the temple, giving it a strong sense of ancient charm. Additionally, I am very interested in ancient Chinese cultural relics. When visiting Small Wild Goose Pagoda, I can also visit Xi'an Museum at the same time and get up close and personal with them. What Is Inside Small Wild Goose Pagoda? Small Wild Goose Pagoda was originally built to store the Buddhist scriptures and statues that were brought back by the monk, Yi Jing. As such, there are still some of them inside. However, due to the current maintenance and reinforcement work inside the pagoda, tourists cannot enter or climb it in a short period of time. Best Time to Visit Small Wild Goose Pagoda The ideal time to visit Small Wild Goose Pagoda is in late autumn (in the middle of November) when all the maple leaves in the temple turn red and all the ginkgo leaves turn yellow, and merged with the ancient pagoda. It's very beautiful. Yellow ginkgo and Small Wide Goose Pagoda in autumn For the best experience, visit in the morning (8:30–9:30am) or in the afternoon (3:30–4pm). • In the morning, you could see some locals doing different exercises in the temple and you are often welcomed and invited to join them. Recommended Xi'an Tours 3-Day Essence of Xi'an Tour 4-Day Xi'an and Huashan Mountain Tour 8-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai Private Tour Feel free to contact us if you would like to have the itinerary customized or adjusted. Recommended Xi'an Tours • 3-Day Essence of Xi'an Tour • 4-Day Xi'an and Huashan Mountain Tour • 8-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai Private Tour Feel free to contact us if you would like to have the itinerary customized or adjusted. How to Get to Small Wild Goose Pagoda Small Wild Goose Pagoda is located in a bustling area. During peak hours, it's rather difficult to hail a taxi. The best way to get there is by private car. If you prefer to take the subway, you could exit at the Nan Shao Men Station on Line 2. From Exit F, it's approximately 700 meters (feet) to the pagoda. Other Tips for Visiting Small Wild Goose Pagoda • In the afternoon, the sun is slanting and the light spots filter through the ancient trees and fall on the ground, creating a very beautiful scene. • If you want to take the best photos of Small Wild Goose Pagoda, take them in the courtyard beside the Great Buddha Hall. Taking photos for the Small Wild Goose Pagoda in the courtyard beside the Great Buddha Hall What to Do Around Small Wild Goose Pagoda Near Small Goose Pagoda is the Anren Fang Ruins Exhibition Hall. After visiting Xi'an Museum, exit from the west gate and walk 400 meters (1,312 feet) to get there. You could simultaneously view the original appearance of the site and related exhibits recreated artistically from above the ruins. The exhibition presents the daily life of the Tang city of Chang'an from multiple perspectives, such as poetry, music, clothing, housing, lamps, and tea, and through techniques like miniature models, sound, light, and electricity, providing an immersive experience for the audience to feel the cultural features of the Tang Dynasty. • There is also a teahouse inside the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. If you get tired from sightseeing, you could stop by to enjoy a cup of tea and take a rest. Or you could click Xian tours for more inspirations.