ID: 4751726024b6ec18
Title: 1-Day Incredible Chongqing Megacity Walking Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chongqing/1-day-city-walking-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Explore the stunning 3D metropolis of Chongqing on a full-day city walking tour and create unforgettable memories. Marvel at Chongqing's remarkable infrastructure and ingenious urban planning on this guided walking adventure. Discover hidden gems, navigate its bustling streets, and gain insight into the city's rich history and vibrant culture. Tour Highlights Climb to the top of Eling Park for a breathtaking panoramic view of Chongqing. Experience the incredible cross-house subway train ride through modern apartment building. Get unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a river bridge. Explore hidden mountain lanes and soak up the history and daily life of locals. Visit Hongya Cave - one of the must-see attractions, with its unique ancient architectural style. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 am Meet your guide Please go to the meeting point on time at 8am on your own and meet your guide under the large red sign of "People's Assembly Hall" (in Chinese: 重庆市人民大礼堂) at the Chongqing People's Square. You can easily take metro, public bus and taxi to get there. The nearest metro station is "Chongqing People's Auditorium Station", Exit 1. Chongqing People's Assembly Hall 8:30 - 10:30 am Visit Liziba Station and Eling Park Take a taxi to Liziba Station. Liziba subway station is very popular on social media. It’s not a tourist attraction but it's uniqueness is due to the fact that this subway station is located in the middle of a building. Here you can see the famous scene that light rail goes through the residential building. liziba Then, we'll go to visit E'ling Park. Chongqing E'ling Park, located in the Yuzhong District, was established in 1909 and was once the private garden of the local richest man. Walk up to the top of the Lansheng Pavilion inside the park, and you'll get a breathtaking view of the magnificent convergence of the Yangtze and Jialing rivers. It is also an excellent spot for birds view of Chongqing mega city. chongqing 10:30 - 12:00 pm Walk Through Mountain City Lane Chongqing Mountain City Lane, also called the Shancheng Lane, spans about 1.5 kilometers and is a small alleyway filled with historical charm and the essence of everyday life. The lane is paved with green slate and built along the mountainside, winding and twisting with traditional Chongqing architecture on both sides, adorned with greenery and blooming flowers. As Chongqing has developed, many small alleys and city gates have disappeared, making this a remnant of the memories of the older generation of Chongqing residents.It's a great place to learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. Chongqing Shancheng Lane Shancheng Lane There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. Tea house 12:30 - 2:00 pm Yangtze River CableWay Take a taxi to Dongshuimen Bridge to enjoy very unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a distance. The Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway is hailed as the "First Aerial Corridor over the Yangtze River" and the "local Elevator". This cableway has been officially in operation since 1987. It is nearly 1.8 kilometers long and runs at a speed of 6 meters per second. It only takes about 4 minutes to travel from one bank of the Yangtze River to the other. With the construction of the Yangtze River Bridge, it has gradually become a traditional means of connecting the two banks, also it's a transportation for citizens' daily commuting. Yangtze River Cableway Then we'll walk to the Chaotianmen Wholesale Market. This is the most representative place in Chongqing where the transtition from the old to the new, being filled with a sense of cyberpunk science fiction. Also, this is where "bangbang men" of the porters are the most concentrated. It is very close to Raffles City (Chaotianmen Pier), we will take a break here. Raffles City 2:00 - 3:00 pm Hongya Cave and Jiefangbei Square Our last stop is Hongya Cave. The Hongya Cave has a history of more than 2,000 years and has been restored many times, but it still retains its beauty. It's one of the most renowned place to watch Chongqing's night view, and the most crowded scenic spot. Therefore, Hongyadong is always bustling with traffic and tourists at night. You can walk around, try the famous Chongqing hot pot for dinner, and enjoy the charming night view of Hongyadong. Our tour ends when we walk to Jiefangbei Square. This is the heart of Chongqing city. It houses the People's Liberation monument at the center of the pedestrian walking boulevard. There are plenty of eating and shopping options nearby and is also the place for people watching. After our tour, you can walk around and try famous Chongqing hotpot for supper and enjoy amazing night view in the city center. Jiefangbei Pedestrian Street You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Know Before You Book Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Admission of all mentioned spots. Public transportation fee (light rail, bus or taxi). Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Lunch. Gratuities (recommended). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Explore the stunning 3D metropolis of Chongqing on a full-day city walking tour and create unforgettable memories. Marvel at Chongqing's remarkable infrastructure and ingenious urban planning on this guided walking adventure. Discover hidden gems, navigate its bustling streets, and gain insight into the city's rich history and vibrant culture. Explore the stunning 3D metropolis of Chongqing on a full-day city walking tour and create unforgettable memories. Marvel at Chongqing's remarkable infrastructure and ingenious urban planning on this guided walking adventure. Discover hidden gems, navigate its bustling streets, and gain insight into the city's rich history and vibrant culture. Tour Highlights Climb to the top of Eling Park for a breathtaking panoramic view of Chongqing. Experience the incredible cross-house subway train ride through modern apartment building. Get unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a river bridge. Explore hidden mountain lanes and soak up the history and daily life of locals. Visit Hongya Cave - one of the must-see attractions, with its unique ancient architectural style. • Climb to the top of Eling Park for a breathtaking panoramic view of Chongqing. • Experience the incredible cross-house subway train ride through modern apartment building. • Get unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a river bridge. • Explore hidden mountain lanes and soak up the history and daily life of locals. • Visit Hongya Cave - one of the must-see attractions, with its unique ancient architectural style. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 am Meet your guide Please go to the meeting point on time at 8am on your own and meet your guide under the large red sign of "People's Assembly Hall" (in Chinese: 重庆市人民大礼堂) at the Chongqing People's Square. You can easily take metro, public bus and taxi to get there. The nearest metro station is "Chongqing People's Auditorium Station", Exit 1. Chongqing People's Assembly Hall 8:30 - 10:30 am Visit Liziba Station and Eling Park Take a taxi to Liziba Station. Liziba subway station is very popular on social media. It’s not a tourist attraction but it's uniqueness is due to the fact that this subway station is located in the middle of a building. Here you can see the famous scene that light rail goes through the residential building. liziba Then, we'll go to visit E'ling Park. Chongqing E'ling Park, located in the Yuzhong District, was established in 1909 and was once the private garden of the local richest man. Walk up to the top of the Lansheng Pavilion inside the park, and you'll get a breathtaking view of the magnificent convergence of the Yangtze and Jialing rivers. It is also an excellent spot for birds view of Chongqing mega city. chongqing 10:30 - 12:00 pm Walk Through Mountain City Lane Chongqing Mountain City Lane, also called the Shancheng Lane, spans about 1.5 kilometers and is a small alleyway filled with historical charm and the essence of everyday life. The lane is paved with green slate and built along the mountainside, winding and twisting with traditional Chongqing architecture on both sides, adorned with greenery and blooming flowers. As Chongqing has developed, many small alleys and city gates have disappeared, making this a remnant of the memories of the older generation of Chongqing residents.It's a great place to learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. Chongqing Shancheng Lane Shancheng Lane There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. Tea house 12:30 - 2:00 pm Yangtze River CableWay Take a taxi to Dongshuimen Bridge to enjoy very unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a distance. The Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway is hailed as the "First Aerial Corridor over the Yangtze River" and the "local Elevator". This cableway has been officially in operation since 1987. It is nearly 1.8 kilometers long and runs at a speed of 6 meters per second. It only takes about 4 minutes to travel from one bank of the Yangtze River to the other. With the construction of the Yangtze River Bridge, it has gradually become a traditional means of connecting the two banks, also it's a transportation for citizens' daily commuting. Yangtze River Cableway Then we'll walk to the Chaotianmen Wholesale Market. This is the most representative place in Chongqing where the transtition from the old to the new, being filled with a sense of cyberpunk science fiction. Also, this is where "bangbang men" of the porters are the most concentrated. It is very close to Raffles City (Chaotianmen Pier), we will take a break here. Raffles City 2:00 - 3:00 pm Hongya Cave and Jiefangbei Square Our last stop is Hongya Cave. The Hongya Cave has a history of more than 2,000 years and has been restored many times, but it still retains its beauty. It's one of the most renowned place to watch Chongqing's night view, and the most crowded scenic spot. Therefore, Hongyadong is always bustling with traffic and tourists at night. You can walk around, try the famous Chongqing hot pot for dinner, and enjoy the charming night view of Hongyadong. Our tour ends when we walk to Jiefangbei Square. This is the heart of Chongqing city. It houses the People's Liberation monument at the center of the pedestrian walking boulevard. There are plenty of eating and shopping options nearby and is also the place for people watching. After our tour, you can walk around and try famous Chongqing hotpot for supper and enjoy amazing night view in the city center. Jiefangbei Pedestrian Street You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 am Meet your guide Please go to the meeting point on time at 8am on your own and meet your guide under the large red sign of "People's Assembly Hall" (in Chinese: 重庆市人民大礼堂) at the Chongqing People's Square. You can easily take metro, public bus and taxi to get there. The nearest metro station is "Chongqing People's Auditorium Station", Exit 1. Chongqing People's Assembly Hall 8:30 - 10:30 am Visit Liziba Station and Eling Park Take a taxi to Liziba Station. Liziba subway station is very popular on social media. It’s not a tourist attraction but it's uniqueness is due to the fact that this subway station is located in the middle of a building. Here you can see the famous scene that light rail goes through the residential building. liziba Then, we'll go to visit E'ling Park. Chongqing E'ling Park, located in the Yuzhong District, was established in 1909 and was once the private garden of the local richest man. Walk up to the top of the Lansheng Pavilion inside the park, and you'll get a breathtaking view of the magnificent convergence of the Yangtze and Jialing rivers. It is also an excellent spot for birds view of Chongqing mega city. chongqing 10:30 - 12:00 pm Walk Through Mountain City Lane Chongqing Mountain City Lane, also called the Shancheng Lane, spans about 1.5 kilometers and is a small alleyway filled with historical charm and the essence of everyday life. The lane is paved with green slate and built along the mountainside, winding and twisting with traditional Chongqing architecture on both sides, adorned with greenery and blooming flowers. As Chongqing has developed, many small alleys and city gates have disappeared, making this a remnant of the memories of the older generation of Chongqing residents.It's a great place to learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. Chongqing Shancheng Lane Shancheng Lane There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. Tea house 12:30 - 2:00 pm Yangtze River CableWay Take a taxi to Dongshuimen Bridge to enjoy very unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a distance. The Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway is hailed as the "First Aerial Corridor over the Yangtze River" and the "local Elevator". This cableway has been officially in operation since 1987. It is nearly 1.8 kilometers long and runs at a speed of 6 meters per second. It only takes about 4 minutes to travel from one bank of the Yangtze River to the other. With the construction of the Yangtze River Bridge, it has gradually become a traditional means of connecting the two banks, also it's a transportation for citizens' daily commuting. Yangtze River Cableway Then we'll walk to the Chaotianmen Wholesale Market. This is the most representative place in Chongqing where the transtition from the old to the new, being filled with a sense of cyberpunk science fiction. Also, this is where "bangbang men" of the porters are the most concentrated. It is very close to Raffles City (Chaotianmen Pier), we will take a break here. Raffles City 2:00 - 3:00 pm Hongya Cave and Jiefangbei Square Our last stop is Hongya Cave. The Hongya Cave has a history of more than 2,000 years and has been restored many times, but it still retains its beauty. It's one of the most renowned place to watch Chongqing's night view, and the most crowded scenic spot. Therefore, Hongyadong is always bustling with traffic and tourists at night. You can walk around, try the famous Chongqing hot pot for dinner, and enjoy the charming night view of Hongyadong. Our tour ends when we walk to Jiefangbei Square. This is the heart of Chongqing city. It houses the People's Liberation monument at the center of the pedestrian walking boulevard. There are plenty of eating and shopping options nearby and is also the place for people watching. After our tour, you can walk around and try famous Chongqing hotpot for supper and enjoy amazing night view in the city center. Jiefangbei Pedestrian Street You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 am Meet your guide Please go to the meeting point on time at 8am on your own and meet your guide under the large red sign of "People's Assembly Hall" (in Chinese: 重庆市人民大礼堂) at the Chongqing People's Square. You can easily take metro, public bus and taxi to get there. The nearest metro station is "Chongqing People's Auditorium Station", Exit 1. Chongqing People's Assembly Hall 8:00 am Meet your guide Please go to the meeting point on time at 8am on your own and meet your guide under the large red sign of "People's Assembly Hall" (in Chinese: 重庆市人民大礼堂) at the Chongqing People's Square. You can easily take metro, public bus and taxi to get there. The nearest metro station is "Chongqing People's Auditorium Station", Exit 1. Chongqing People's Assembly Hall Please go to the meeting point on time at 8am on your own and meet your guide under the large red sign of "People's Assembly Hall" (in Chinese: 重庆市人民大礼堂) at the Chongqing People's Square. You can easily take metro, public bus and taxi to get there. The nearest metro station is "Chongqing People's Auditorium Station", Exit 1. Chongqing People's Assembly Hall 8:30 - 10:30 am Visit Liziba Station and Eling Park Take a taxi to Liziba Station. Liziba subway station is very popular on social media. It’s not a tourist attraction but it's uniqueness is due to the fact that this subway station is located in the middle of a building. Here you can see the famous scene that light rail goes through the residential building. liziba Then, we'll go to visit E'ling Park. Chongqing E'ling Park, located in the Yuzhong District, was established in 1909 and was once the private garden of the local richest man. Walk up to the top of the Lansheng Pavilion inside the park, and you'll get a breathtaking view of the magnificent convergence of the Yangtze and Jialing rivers. It is also an excellent spot for birds view of Chongqing mega city. chongqing 8:30 - 10:30 am Visit Liziba Station and Eling Park Take a taxi to Liziba Station. Liziba subway station is very popular on social media. It’s not a tourist attraction but it's uniqueness is due to the fact that this subway station is located in the middle of a building. Here you can see the famous scene that light rail goes through the residential building. liziba Then, we'll go to visit E'ling Park. Chongqing E'ling Park, located in the Yuzhong District, was established in 1909 and was once the private garden of the local richest man. Walk up to the top of the Lansheng Pavilion inside the park, and you'll get a breathtaking view of the magnificent convergence of the Yangtze and Jialing rivers. It is also an excellent spot for birds view of Chongqing mega city. chongqing Take a taxi to Liziba Station. Liziba subway station is very popular on social media. It’s not a tourist attraction but it's uniqueness is due to the fact that this subway station is located in the middle of a building. Here you can see the famous scene that light rail goes through the residential building. Then, we'll go to visit E'ling Park. Chongqing E'ling Park, located in the Yuzhong District, was established in 1909 and was once the private garden of the local richest man. Walk up to the top of the Lansheng Pavilion inside the park, and you'll get a breathtaking view of the magnificent convergence of the Yangtze and Jialing rivers. It is also an excellent spot for birds view of Chongqing mega city. 10:30 - 12:00 pm Walk Through Mountain City Lane Chongqing Mountain City Lane, also called the Shancheng Lane, spans about 1.5 kilometers and is a small alleyway filled with historical charm and the essence of everyday life. The lane is paved with green slate and built along the mountainside, winding and twisting with traditional Chongqing architecture on both sides, adorned with greenery and blooming flowers. As Chongqing has developed, many small alleys and city gates have disappeared, making this a remnant of the memories of the older generation of Chongqing residents.It's a great place to learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. Chongqing Shancheng Lane Shancheng Lane There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. Tea house 10:30 - 12:00 pm Walk Through Mountain City Lane Chongqing Mountain City Lane, also called the Shancheng Lane, spans about 1.5 kilometers and is a small alleyway filled with historical charm and the essence of everyday life. The lane is paved with green slate and built along the mountainside, winding and twisting with traditional Chongqing architecture on both sides, adorned with greenery and blooming flowers. As Chongqing has developed, many small alleys and city gates have disappeared, making this a remnant of the memories of the older generation of Chongqing residents.It's a great place to learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. Chongqing Shancheng Lane Shancheng Lane There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. Tea house Chongqing Mountain City Lane, also called the Shancheng Lane, spans about 1.5 kilometers and is a small alleyway filled with historical charm and the essence of everyday life. The lane is paved with green slate and built along the mountainside, winding and twisting with traditional Chongqing architecture on both sides, adorned with greenery and blooming flowers. As Chongqing has developed, many small alleys and city gates have disappeared, making this a remnant of the memories of the older generation of Chongqing residents.It's a great place to learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. Chongqing Shancheng Lane There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. 12:30 - 2:00 pm Yangtze River CableWay Take a taxi to Dongshuimen Bridge to enjoy very unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a distance. The Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway is hailed as the "First Aerial Corridor over the Yangtze River" and the "local Elevator". This cableway has been officially in operation since 1987. It is nearly 1.8 kilometers long and runs at a speed of 6 meters per second. It only takes about 4 minutes to travel from one bank of the Yangtze River to the other. With the construction of the Yangtze River Bridge, it has gradually become a traditional means of connecting the two banks, also it's a transportation for citizens' daily commuting. Yangtze River Cableway Then we'll walk to the Chaotianmen Wholesale Market. This is the most representative place in Chongqing where the transtition from the old to the new, being filled with a sense of cyberpunk science fiction. Also, this is where "bangbang men" of the porters are the most concentrated. It is very close to Raffles City (Chaotianmen Pier), we will take a break here. Raffles City 12:30 - 2:00 pm Yangtze River CableWay Take a taxi to Dongshuimen Bridge to enjoy very unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a distance. The Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway is hailed as the "First Aerial Corridor over the Yangtze River" and the "local Elevator". This cableway has been officially in operation since 1987. It is nearly 1.8 kilometers long and runs at a speed of 6 meters per second. It only takes about 4 minutes to travel from one bank of the Yangtze River to the other. With the construction of the Yangtze River Bridge, it has gradually become a traditional means of connecting the two banks, also it's a transportation for citizens' daily commuting. Yangtze River Cableway Then we'll walk to the Chaotianmen Wholesale Market. This is the most representative place in Chongqing where the transtition from the old to the new, being filled with a sense of cyberpunk science fiction. Also, this is where "bangbang men" of the porters are the most concentrated. It is very close to Raffles City (Chaotianmen Pier), we will take a break here. Raffles City Take a taxi to Dongshuimen Bridge to enjoy very unique view of Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway from a distance. The Chongqing Yangtze River Cableway is hailed as the "First Aerial Corridor over the Yangtze River" and the "local Elevator". This cableway has been officially in operation since 1987. It is nearly 1.8 kilometers long and runs at a speed of 6 meters per second. It only takes about 4 minutes to travel from one bank of the Yangtze River to the other. With the construction of the Yangtze River Bridge, it has gradually become a traditional means of connecting the two banks, also it's a transportation for citizens' daily commuting. Yangtze River Cableway Then we'll walk to the Chaotianmen Wholesale Market. This is the most representative place in Chongqing where the transtition from the old to the new, being filled with a sense of cyberpunk science fiction. Also, this is where "bangbang men" of the porters are the most concentrated. It is very close to Raffles City (Chaotianmen Pier), we will take a break here. 2:00 - 3:00 pm Hongya Cave and Jiefangbei Square Our last stop is Hongya Cave. The Hongya Cave has a history of more than 2,000 years and has been restored many times, but it still retains its beauty. It's one of the most renowned place to watch Chongqing's night view, and the most crowded scenic spot. Therefore, Hongyadong is always bustling with traffic and tourists at night. You can walk around, try the famous Chongqing hot pot for dinner, and enjoy the charming night view of Hongyadong. Our tour ends when we walk to Jiefangbei Square. This is the heart of Chongqing city. It houses the People's Liberation monument at the center of the pedestrian walking boulevard. There are plenty of eating and shopping options nearby and is also the place for people watching. After our tour, you can walk around and try famous Chongqing hotpot for supper and enjoy amazing night view in the city center. Jiefangbei Pedestrian Street You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook 2:00 - 3:00 pm Hongya Cave and Jiefangbei Square Our last stop is Hongya Cave. The Hongya Cave has a history of more than 2,000 years and has been restored many times, but it still retains its beauty. It's one of the most renowned place to watch Chongqing's night view, and the most crowded scenic spot. Therefore, Hongyadong is always bustling with traffic and tourists at night. You can walk around, try the famous Chongqing hot pot for dinner, and enjoy the charming night view of Hongyadong. Our tour ends when we walk to Jiefangbei Square. This is the heart of Chongqing city. It houses the People's Liberation monument at the center of the pedestrian walking boulevard. There are plenty of eating and shopping options nearby and is also the place for people watching. After our tour, you can walk around and try famous Chongqing hotpot for supper and enjoy amazing night view in the city center. Jiefangbei Pedestrian Street You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Our last stop is Hongya Cave. The Hongya Cave has a history of more than 2,000 years and has been restored many times, but it still retains its beauty. It's one of the most renowned place to watch Chongqing's night view, and the most crowded scenic spot. Therefore, Hongyadong is always bustling with traffic and tourists at night. You can walk around, try the famous Chongqing hot pot for dinner, and enjoy the charming night view of Hongyadong. Our tour ends when we walk to Jiefangbei Square. This is the heart of Chongqing city. It houses the People's Liberation monument at the center of the pedestrian walking boulevard. There are plenty of eating and shopping options nearby and is also the place for people watching. After our tour, you can walk around and try famous Chongqing hotpot for supper and enjoy amazing night view in the city center. Jiefangbei Pedestrian Street You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Know Before You Book Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Admission of all mentioned spots. Public transportation fee (light rail, bus or taxi). Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Lunch. Gratuities (recommended). Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Admission of all mentioned spots. Public transportation fee (light rail, bus or taxi). Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Lunch. Gratuities (recommended). Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Admission of all mentioned spots. Public transportation fee (light rail, bus or taxi). Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Lunch. Gratuities (recommended). • Professional English-speaking local guide. • Admission of all mentioned spots. • Public transportation fee (light rail, bus or taxi). • Hotel pickup and drop-off. • Lunch. • Gratuities (recommended). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 96 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 96 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 96 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20