ID: 229c7ac1457658a8
Title: Best (and Worst) Times of the Year to Visit Xi'an
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xian/weather.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Xi'an has four distinct seasons. Generally speaking, the best times to visit are from March to May and from September to November. March to May is spring when the temperature is pleasant. You could see rich natural landscapes during this period, such as beautiful cherry blossoms in full bloom, and the ancient city looks more charming against the backdrop of numerous flowers. Moreover, it's very comfortable to visit outdoors without having to endure the intense heat of summer. September to November is autumn and I like the fresh air and the blue sky. The temperature is moderate. It's also a good time to taste the delicious food in Xi'an. The abundant products in autumn make the ingredients of various snacks fresher. Meanwhile, it avoids the peak tourist season and high temperatures in July and August, as well as the cold winter from December to February. Susan Yang 20 Years as a Local Guide in Xi'an Personally, I like June and January best. Yes, you read that right. I like cold January. If you can stand the cold, January is the season with the fewest tourists and you may also have the chance to see the snow scenery in Xi'an. In June, students are busy preparing for exams nervously, and parents would also accompany their children to get ready for the exams. Therefore, June could be regarded as the offseason with not many tourists. However, the temperature starts to rise. It's a bit hot, but not too hot. If you prefer the seasons with a pleasant temperature, then visit in April and October. These are the months when the perceived temperature is the most comfortable, but there are relatively more tourists. 20 Years as a Local Guide in Xi'an Personally, I like June and January best. Yes, you read that right. I like cold January. If you can stand the cold, January is the season with the fewest tourists and you may also have the chance to see the snow scenery in Xi'an. In June, students are busy preparing for exams nervously, and parents would also accompany their children to get ready for the exams. Therefore, June could be regarded as the offseason with not many tourists. However, the temperature starts to rise. It's a bit hot, but not too hot. If you prefer the seasons with a pleasant temperature, then visit in April and October. These are the months when the perceived temperature is the most comfortable, but there are relatively more tourists. • The Hottest and the Coldest Month in Xi'an • Xi'an in Different Seasons • The Worst Times to Visit Xi'an • Month-by-Month Guide The Hottest and the Coldest Month in Xi'an The hottest month in Xi'an is usually July. The highest temperature during the day could reach about 38°C to 40°C (100–104°F) and the temperature at night is generally about 24°C to 26°C (75–79°F). It's a big challenge to stay outdoors. The coldest month in Xi'an is generally January. The highest temperature during the day is often about 3–5°C (37–41°F) and the temperature at night may drop to about -5°C to -3°C (23–27°F). However, these temperatures are just approximate ranges and the actual temperatures may vary depending on the year and specific weather conditions. What's the Weather Like in Xi'an in Different Seasons? • Temperature: The temperature gradually rises, with an average temperature of about 10–20°C (50–68°F). • Rainfall: There is relatively less rain and the air is rather dry. It rains for about 5 days in a month and the weather is basically sunny. • Dressing guide: You could wear sweaters and windbreakers along with long trousers, etc. Sunset in City Wall in summer • Temperature: It's relatively hot. The average temperature could reach above 25–30°C (77–86°F) and sometimes there would be high-temperature weather. • Rainfall: The precipitation is relatively high and is mostly concentrated in July and August. Usually, June to August is the rainy season in Xi'an and rainfall occurs relatively frequently. Based on rough estimates, the total number of rainy days in these 3 months is generally about 20 to 30 days. • Dressing guide: Wear light, thin, and breathable clothes, such as short-sleeved shirts, shorts, and short skirts. Meanwhile, take sun protection measures. Autumn (September–November) Terracotta Warriors Museum in autumn • Temperature: The temperature gradually drops, with an average temperature of about 15–20°C (59–68°F). • Rainfall: The rainfall decreases. Generally speaking, the number of rainy days in Xi'an from September to November is approximately between 10 and 20 days. However, the climate conditions vary from year to year, so the specific number of rainy days may differ depending on the specific year. • Dressing guide: It's suitable to wear long-sleeved shirts, thin coats, and so on. Winter (December–February) • Temperature: It's cold. The average temperature is about 0–5°C (32–41°F) and sometimes it would be below 0°C (32°F). • Rainfall: It's relatively dry and it snows occasionally. In winter, the number of snowy days is usually about 5 to 15 days but it could vary greatly from year to year. The snow is mainly concentrated in December and January. If you want to experience the snow scenery, pay attention to the weather forecasts of these 2 months in advance and you would surely see a different ancient city. • Dressing guide: You need to wear thick cotton-padded clothes, down jackets, scarves, gloves, and so on to keep warm. Recommended Xi'an Tours 2-Day Beijing to Xi'an by High-Speed Rail 8-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Tour 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Recommended Xi'an Tours • 2-Day Beijing to Xi'an by High-Speed Rail • 8-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Tour • 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery The Worst Times to Visit Xi'an July and August, the Spring Festival, and the National Day holiday are all times when there are the most tourists. Some tourist attractions are extremely crowded and the visiting experience is not good. During the summer vacation, the Terracotta Army opens at 8am. However, many people queue up before 7am. Every time I go there, I need to queue two or three times. Each time takes about half an hour before I can see the Terracotta Army. Nevertheless, if you arrive early, there would be relatively fewer tourists. You could avoid the peak by setting off early to solve the problem of overcrowding. Also, the festive atmosphere doesn't exist every day. I really like the lantern show on the city wall during the Spring Festival. Month-by-Month Guide for Traveling in Xi'an Click the sign of each month to check the travel guide information. • January • February • August • September • October • November • December January Travel in Xi'an I like January best, probably because I was born in January. Although it's the coldest month, there are very few tourists and it's not crowded at all. As long as you keep warm, the visiting experience would be quite good. I usually spend a lot of time studying in the offseason. As tour guides, we need to have a wide range of knowledge and keep learning to improve ourselves. January Travel in Xi'an I like January best, probably because I was born in January. Although it's the coldest month, there are very few tourists and it's not crowded at all. As long as you keep warm, the visiting experience would be quite good. I usually spend a lot of time studying in the offseason. As tour guides, we need to have a wide range of knowledge and keep learning to improve ourselves. February Travel in Xi'an Generally speaking, the Chinese Spring Festival falls in February. The temperature starts to rise but it's still rather cold. People are celebrating the festival and traveling around. If you want to experience traditional New Year celebrations, choose to visit Xi'an at this time. However, make sure to book all types of tickets in advance. February Travel in Xi'an Generally speaking, the Chinese Spring Festival falls in February. The temperature starts to rise but it's still rather cold. People are celebrating the festival and traveling around. If you want to experience traditional New Year celebrations, choose to visit Xi'an at this time. However, make sure to book all types of tickets in advance. March Travel in Xi'an In March, all schools have already started and people have also been back to work. There are far fewer tourists at tourist attractions. The temperature is getting warmer and warmer. If you have a vacation, it's a nice time to travel to Xi'an. March Travel in Xi'an In March, all schools have already started and people have also been back to work. There are far fewer tourists at tourist attractions. The temperature is getting warmer and warmer. If you have a vacation, it's a nice time to travel to Xi'an. April Travel in Xi'an In April, flowers bloom as spring arrives. My favorite cherry blossoms and peony flowers only bloom in April. The temperature is between 23 and 25 degrees Celsius (73–77°F), which is the most comfortable time. See our 10-Day Beijing – Pingyao – Xi'an – Shanghai Tour April Travel in Xi'an In April, flowers bloom as spring arrives. My favorite cherry blossoms and peony flowers only bloom in April. The temperature is between 23 and 25 degrees Celsius (73–77°F), which is the most comfortable time. See our 10-Day Beijing – Pingyao – Xi'an – Shanghai Tour May Travel in Xi'an It's already quite warm in May. At this time, when you walk along the streets of Xi'an, you would see many people wearing Hanfu and taking pictures. It seems as if you have gone back to the prosperous period of the Tang Dynasty. It's already quite warm in May. At this time, when you walk along the streets of Xi'an, you would see many people wearing Hanfu and taking pictures. It seems as if you have gone back to the prosperous period of the Tang Dynasty. June Travel in Xi'an June is the month for students to prepare for exams. Therefore, there are very few tourists this month. It's very suitable for traveling but most people don't have time. If you have a vacation, go to Xi'an this month. It's the best season to visit this wonderful city. June is the month for students to prepare for exams. Therefore, there are very few tourists this month. It's very suitable for traveling but most people don't have time. If you have a vacation, go to Xi'an this month. It's the best season to visit this wonderful city. July Travel in Xi'an The summer vacation has begun and the temperature is at its highest point of the year. Parents take their children to Xi'an to start their historical and cultural tours. The entire city would be rather crowded. Please try to avoid the peak periods if possible! I don't mind the heat but it's really hot this month. The summer vacation has begun and the temperature is at its highest point of the year. Parents take their children to Xi'an to start their historical and cultural tours. The entire city would be rather crowded. Please try to avoid the peak periods if possible! I don't mind the heat but it's really hot this month. August Travel in Xi'an Like July, August is still hot during the summer vacation. However, as the beginning of autumn falls in August, the temperature in the mornings and evenings would be a little lower. Xi'an at night is called Chang'an and its night views are breathtakingly beautiful! August Travel in Xi'an Like July, August is still hot during the summer vacation. However, as the beginning of autumn falls in August, the temperature in the mornings and evenings would be a little lower. Xi'an at night is called Chang'an and its night views are breathtakingly beautiful! September Travel in Xi'an September is another season that I like very much. The temperature is comfortable, with blue sky and white clouds, and the air is crisp in autumn. It's very suitable for outdoor activities. Check out our 13-Day China Tour with Culinary Experiences September Travel in Xi'an September is another season that I like very much. The temperature is comfortable, with blue sky and white clouds, and the air is crisp in autumn. It's very suitable for outdoor activities. Check out our 13-Day China Tour with Culinary Experiences October Travel in Xi'an October is a bit colder than September but the temperature during the day is still comfortable. I'm not very keen on the cold, so I'll wear a trench coat in the morning and evening. Moreover, in this season, all kinds of fruits are abundant. There is an old saying, "Putting on autumn weight", which means this is a season with delicious food. The National Day holiday in China lasts from October 1st to 7th. During these 7 days, the number of tourists is unimaginably large. It is recommended to avoid these 7 days of holiday when traveling to China. October Travel in Xi'an October is a bit colder than September but the temperature during the day is still comfortable. I'm not very keen on the cold, so I'll wear a trench coat in the morning and evening. Moreover, in this season, all kinds of fruits are abundant. There is an old saying, "Putting on autumn weight", which means this is a season with delicious food. The National Day holiday in China lasts from October 1st to 7th. During these 7 days, the number of tourists is unimaginably large. It is recommended to avoid these 7 days of holiday when traveling to China. November Travel in Xi'an November is the early winter and the temperature gets colder. However, it's not extremely cold yet. Many people who dislike the cold don't want to go out, so the number of tourists drops significantly. The scenic spots are not crowded at all and the experience is really good. November Travel in Xi'an November is the early winter and the temperature gets colder. However, it's not extremely cold yet. Many people who dislike the cold don't want to go out, so the number of tourists drops significantly. The scenic spots are not crowded at all and the experience is really good. December Travel in Xi'an December experiences the real winter. It's very cold outdoors and the temperature is about 0 degrees Celsius (32°F). There aren't many tourists and some outdoor performances have been stopped. If you don't want to be in a crowded situation, this month is a good choice. December Travel in Xi'an December experiences the real winter. It's very cold outdoors and the temperature is about 0 degrees Celsius (32°F). There aren't many tourists and some outdoor performances have been stopped. If you don't want to be in a crowded situation, this month is a good choice. Xian Weather in January Xian Weather in February Xian Weather in March Xian Weather in April Xian Weather in May Xian Weather in June Xian Weather in July Xian Weather in August Xian Weather in September Xian Weather in October Xian Weather in November Xian Weather in December