ID: 724499dc5363e201
Title: Private Transfer Between Hong Kong Airport/Attractions and Hotel
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/hongkong/hongkong-airport-hotel-private-transfer.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ We provide a stress free transportation experience with prompt and reliable service, clean comfortable vehicles, courteous professional drivers and private door to door transfer service. We offer excellent customer service concerning all your transportation needs between hotel and airport or attractions in Hong Kong and ensure you arrive at your destination on-time, relaxed and happy. Transfer Types Our Vehicle Fleet Service Details (Take Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information One day before you get to Hong Kong, you will receive the information about the driver and vehicle that will pick you up at the airport. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact us. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Hong Kong airport, our driver will meet you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding a card with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line +86 18807734970 to ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 1 hour of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply. If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Know Before You Book Price Includes: Experienced and helpful driver. Free waiting time: up to 1 hour for arrivals; 20 minutes for departures. Comfortable and air-conditioned vehicle. Price Excludes: Tour guide. Extra charge if hotel is outside the pick-up area of Hong Kong. Additional waiting time fees. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Hong Kong? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the Kowloon Area and Hong Kong Island Area. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and attractions in Hong Kong: Airports: Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) Attractions: Hong Kong Disneyland, Ocean Park Hongkong, Victoria Peak, Ngong Ping 360 Pick-up and Drop-off Area in Hong Kong What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer from hotel to airport: please tell us your flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight.) 2. Transfer from hotel to attration: Please note us the specific departure time and your hotel's detailed address in advance, our driver will meet you on time and waits for you at your hotel lobby. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. We provide a stress free transportation experience with prompt and reliable service, clean comfortable vehicles, courteous professional drivers and private door to door transfer service. We offer excellent customer service concerning all your transportation needs between hotel and airport or attractions in Hong Kong and ensure you arrive at your destination on-time, relaxed and happy. We provide a stress free transportation experience with prompt and reliable service, clean comfortable vehicles, courteous professional drivers and private door to door transfer service. We offer excellent customer service concerning all your transportation needs between hotel and airport or attractions in Hong Kong and ensure you arrive at your destination on-time, relaxed and happy. Service Details (Take Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information One day before you get to Hong Kong, you will receive the information about the driver and vehicle that will pick you up at the airport. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact us. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Hong Kong airport, our driver will meet you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding a card with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line +86 18807734970 to ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 1 hour of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply. If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Service Details (Take Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information One day before you get to Hong Kong, you will receive the information about the driver and vehicle that will pick you up at the airport. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact us. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Hong Kong airport, our driver will meet you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding a card with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line +86 18807734970 to ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 1 hour of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply. If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information One day before you get to Hong Kong, you will receive the information about the driver and vehicle that will pick you up at the airport. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact us. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information One day before you get to Hong Kong, you will receive the information about the driver and vehicle that will pick you up at the airport. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact us. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity One day before you get to Hong Kong, you will receive the information about the driver and vehicle that will pick you up at the airport. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact us. • Driver's name • Driver's contact number • Vehicle's branding • Vehicle's seating capacity On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Hong Kong airport, our driver will meet you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding a card with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line +86 18807734970 to ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 1 hour of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply. If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Hong Kong airport, our driver will meet you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding a card with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line +86 18807734970 to ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 1 hour of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply. If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. When you arrive at Hong Kong airport, our driver will meet you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding a card with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: • Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. • Call our 24/7 emergency line +86 18807734970 to ask for help. • Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. • At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. • Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. • Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. • Pick up from airport: We provide up to 1 hour of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply. If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. • Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Know Before You Book Price Includes: Experienced and helpful driver. Free waiting time: up to 1 hour for arrivals; 20 minutes for departures. Comfortable and air-conditioned vehicle. Price Excludes: Tour guide. Extra charge if hotel is outside the pick-up area of Hong Kong. Additional waiting time fees. Personal expenses. Price Includes: Experienced and helpful driver. Free waiting time: up to 1 hour for arrivals; 20 minutes for departures. Comfortable and air-conditioned vehicle. Price Excludes: Tour guide. Extra charge if hotel is outside the pick-up area of Hong Kong. Additional waiting time fees. Personal expenses. Price Includes: Experienced and helpful driver. Free waiting time: up to 1 hour for arrivals; 20 minutes for departures. Comfortable and air-conditioned vehicle. Price Excludes: Tour guide. Extra charge if hotel is outside the pick-up area of Hong Kong. Additional waiting time fees. Personal expenses. • Experienced and helpful driver. • Free waiting time: up to 1 hour for arrivals; 20 minutes for departures. • Comfortable and air-conditioned vehicle. • Tour guide. • Extra charge if hotel is outside the pick-up area of Hong Kong. • Additional waiting time fees. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Hong Kong? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the Kowloon Area and Hong Kong Island Area. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and attractions in Hong Kong: Airports: Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) Attractions: Hong Kong Disneyland, Ocean Park Hongkong, Victoria Peak, Ngong Ping 360 Pick-up and Drop-off Area in Hong Kong What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer from hotel to airport: please tell us your flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight.) 2. Transfer from hotel to attration: Please note us the specific departure time and your hotel's detailed address in advance, our driver will meet you on time and waits for you at your hotel lobby. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Hong Kong? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the Kowloon Area and Hong Kong Island Area. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and attractions in Hong Kong: Airports: Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) Attractions: Hong Kong Disneyland, Ocean Park Hongkong, Victoria Peak, Ngong Ping 360 Pick-up and Drop-off Area in Hong Kong What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Hong Kong? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the Kowloon Area and Hong Kong Island Area. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and attractions in Hong Kong: Airports: Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) Attractions: Hong Kong Disneyland, Ocean Park Hongkong, Victoria Peak, Ngong Ping 360 Pick-up and Drop-off Area in Hong Kong The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the Kowloon Area and Hong Kong Island Area. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and attractions in Hong Kong: • Airports: Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) • Attractions: Hong Kong Disneyland, Ocean Park Hongkong, Victoria Peak, Ngong Ping 360 Pick-up and Drop-off Area in Hong Kong What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer from hotel to airport: please tell us your flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight.) 2. Transfer from hotel to attration: Please note us the specific departure time and your hotel's detailed address in advance, our driver will meet you on time and waits for you at your hotel lobby. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer from hotel to airport: please tell us your flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight.) 2. Transfer from hotel to attration: Please note us the specific departure time and your hotel's detailed address in advance, our driver will meet you on time and waits for you at your hotel lobby. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. 1. Transfer from hotel to airport: please tell us your flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight.) 2. Transfer from hotel to attration: Please note us the specific departure time and your hotel's detailed address in advance, our driver will meet you on time and waits for you at your hotel lobby. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 59 p/p Transfer Type Hong Kong Airport to Hotel in Kowloon Hong Kong Airport to Hotel in Hong Kong Island Hotel in Hong Kong Island to Hong Kong Airport Hotel in Kowloon to Hong Kong Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 59 p/p Transfer Type Hong Kong Airport to Hotel in Kowloon Hong Kong Airport to Hotel in Hong Kong Island Hotel in Hong Kong Island to Hong Kong Airport Hotel in Kowloon to Hong Kong Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 59 p/p Transfer Type Hong Kong Airport to Hotel in Kowloon Hong Kong Airport to Hotel in Hong Kong Island Hotel in Hong Kong Island to Hong Kong Airport Hotel in Kowloon to Hong Kong Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type Hong Kong Airport to Hotel in Kowloon Hong Kong Airport to Hotel in Hong Kong Island Hotel in Hong Kong Island to Hong Kong Airport Hotel in Kowloon to Hong Kong Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20