ID: 7afb3cb028ebe2fd
Title: 1-day Private Tour Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and Baisha Village
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/yunnan/one-day-jade-dragon-snow-mountain-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Explore the wonderful scenic wonders and time-travel villages surrounding Lijiang on a full-day private tour to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and Baisha Village. Take a cable car up the legendary Jade Dragon Snow Mountain for breathtaking views of the glaciers and peaks. Then visit the traditional Naxi village of Baisha, admire the murals, get into the home of a local Naxi person, and explore the customs and culture of this ancient ethnic group. Tour Highlights Ride the cable car up Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and enjoy stunning views of the glaciers and mountains. Explore the murals of Baisha village at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Visit local people's home and gain a deeper understanding of Naxi culture and local life. Comfortable vehicle and friendly English-speaking tour guide will make your trip hassle-free. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 - 10:30 AMHotel Pickup and transfer to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). After pickup from your Lijiang hotel, enjoy the views as you journey north by private, air-conditioned vehicle to the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Lijiang Ancient Town 10:30 –13:00Take cable car up to the Glacier Park When arrive at the Mountain, we'll ride a cable car from 3,000 meters above sea level to a scenic viewing point of Glacier Park at 4,506 meters, and marvel at the spectacular glacier and mountain views. The Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, a 22-mile (35-kilometer) chain of 13 peaks, boasts the southernmost glacier in the northern hemisphere and is named for its resemblance to a snow-laden dragon – one of China's enduring symbols. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain If you have enough time, you can stroll in Blue Moon Valley. It is a mesmerizing jewel nestled within the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Renowned for its striking turquoise hue, this lake's unique color is a result of glacial meltwater carrying fine white particles. Surrounded by lush forests and cascading waterfalls, Blue Moon Lake offers a serene and picturesque escape. 13:30 – 14:30Lunch Time After leaving the scenic area, we will go to a local specialty restaurant for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. 14:30 – 16:00Visit Baisha Village In the afternoon, we will transfer to the Baisha Village and admire the famous Baisha murals here. Painted over a thousand years ago, the murals combine the cultures of Han, Tibetan and Naxi people displaying the life stories of the Tibet Buddhism, Confucian and Taoism. Have a relaxing walking in the Baisha Village and get to know about the local life and culture. Baisha village is a minority village, where the Naxi aborigines live. A shaman of the Naxi nationality is called a Dongba, and he is a master or wise man. In ancient times, a Dongba created the characters of the Naxi nationality’s written language, so the style of writing is now called the Dongba script. Nothing could be better than visiting a Dongba and his family if you are interested in the mysterious Naxi culture, its words and music, and the Naxi people’s understanding about the relationship between nature and humans. You will be impressed by the passion of the Naxi people for their lifestyle, homeland and love. 16:20–17:00Return to Your Hotel We will transfer back to your hotel in Lijiang at the end of the tour. It will takes about half an hour to Lijiang Ancient Town. Price Include: All entrance fees in the tour. Cable car at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking expert local guide. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Lijiang. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Explore the wonderful scenic wonders and time-travel villages surrounding Lijiang on a full-day private tour to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and Baisha Village. Take a cable car up the legendary Jade Dragon Snow Mountain for breathtaking views of the glaciers and peaks. Then visit the traditional Naxi village of Baisha, admire the murals, get into the home of a local Naxi person, and explore the customs and culture of this ancient ethnic group. Explore the wonderful scenic wonders and time-travel villages surrounding Lijiang on a full-day private tour to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and Baisha Village. Take a cable car up the legendary Jade Dragon Snow Mountain for breathtaking views of the glaciers and peaks. Then visit the traditional Naxi village of Baisha, admire the murals, get into the home of a local Naxi person, and explore the customs and culture of this ancient ethnic group. Tour Highlights Ride the cable car up Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and enjoy stunning views of the glaciers and mountains. Explore the murals of Baisha village at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Visit local people's home and gain a deeper understanding of Naxi culture and local life. Comfortable vehicle and friendly English-speaking tour guide will make your trip hassle-free. • Ride the cable car up Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and enjoy stunning views of the glaciers and mountains. • Explore the murals of Baisha village at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. • Visit local people's home and gain a deeper understanding of Naxi culture and local life. • Comfortable vehicle and friendly English-speaking tour guide will make your trip hassle-free. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 - 10:30 AMHotel Pickup and transfer to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). After pickup from your Lijiang hotel, enjoy the views as you journey north by private, air-conditioned vehicle to the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Lijiang Ancient Town 10:30 –13:00Take cable car up to the Glacier Park When arrive at the Mountain, we'll ride a cable car from 3,000 meters above sea level to a scenic viewing point of Glacier Park at 4,506 meters, and marvel at the spectacular glacier and mountain views. The Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, a 22-mile (35-kilometer) chain of 13 peaks, boasts the southernmost glacier in the northern hemisphere and is named for its resemblance to a snow-laden dragon – one of China's enduring symbols. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain If you have enough time, you can stroll in Blue Moon Valley. It is a mesmerizing jewel nestled within the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Renowned for its striking turquoise hue, this lake's unique color is a result of glacial meltwater carrying fine white particles. Surrounded by lush forests and cascading waterfalls, Blue Moon Lake offers a serene and picturesque escape. 13:30 – 14:30Lunch Time After leaving the scenic area, we will go to a local specialty restaurant for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. 14:30 – 16:00Visit Baisha Village In the afternoon, we will transfer to the Baisha Village and admire the famous Baisha murals here. Painted over a thousand years ago, the murals combine the cultures of Han, Tibetan and Naxi people displaying the life stories of the Tibet Buddhism, Confucian and Taoism. Have a relaxing walking in the Baisha Village and get to know about the local life and culture. Baisha village is a minority village, where the Naxi aborigines live. A shaman of the Naxi nationality is called a Dongba, and he is a master or wise man. In ancient times, a Dongba created the characters of the Naxi nationality’s written language, so the style of writing is now called the Dongba script. Nothing could be better than visiting a Dongba and his family if you are interested in the mysterious Naxi culture, its words and music, and the Naxi people’s understanding about the relationship between nature and humans. You will be impressed by the passion of the Naxi people for their lifestyle, homeland and love. 16:20–17:00Return to Your Hotel We will transfer back to your hotel in Lijiang at the end of the tour. It will takes about half an hour to Lijiang Ancient Town. Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 - 10:30 AMHotel Pickup and transfer to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). After pickup from your Lijiang hotel, enjoy the views as you journey north by private, air-conditioned vehicle to the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Lijiang Ancient Town 10:30 –13:00Take cable car up to the Glacier Park When arrive at the Mountain, we'll ride a cable car from 3,000 meters above sea level to a scenic viewing point of Glacier Park at 4,506 meters, and marvel at the spectacular glacier and mountain views. The Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, a 22-mile (35-kilometer) chain of 13 peaks, boasts the southernmost glacier in the northern hemisphere and is named for its resemblance to a snow-laden dragon – one of China's enduring symbols. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain If you have enough time, you can stroll in Blue Moon Valley. It is a mesmerizing jewel nestled within the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Renowned for its striking turquoise hue, this lake's unique color is a result of glacial meltwater carrying fine white particles. Surrounded by lush forests and cascading waterfalls, Blue Moon Lake offers a serene and picturesque escape. 13:30 – 14:30Lunch Time After leaving the scenic area, we will go to a local specialty restaurant for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. 14:30 – 16:00Visit Baisha Village In the afternoon, we will transfer to the Baisha Village and admire the famous Baisha murals here. Painted over a thousand years ago, the murals combine the cultures of Han, Tibetan and Naxi people displaying the life stories of the Tibet Buddhism, Confucian and Taoism. Have a relaxing walking in the Baisha Village and get to know about the local life and culture. Baisha village is a minority village, where the Naxi aborigines live. A shaman of the Naxi nationality is called a Dongba, and he is a master or wise man. In ancient times, a Dongba created the characters of the Naxi nationality’s written language, so the style of writing is now called the Dongba script. Nothing could be better than visiting a Dongba and his family if you are interested in the mysterious Naxi culture, its words and music, and the Naxi people’s understanding about the relationship between nature and humans. You will be impressed by the passion of the Naxi people for their lifestyle, homeland and love. 16:20–17:00Return to Your Hotel We will transfer back to your hotel in Lijiang at the end of the tour. It will takes about half an hour to Lijiang Ancient Town. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 - 10:30 AMHotel Pickup and transfer to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). After pickup from your Lijiang hotel, enjoy the views as you journey north by private, air-conditioned vehicle to the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Lijiang Ancient Town 9:00 - 10:30 AMHotel Pickup and transfer to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). After pickup from your Lijiang hotel, enjoy the views as you journey north by private, air-conditioned vehicle to the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Lijiang Ancient Town The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). After pickup from your Lijiang hotel, enjoy the views as you journey north by private, air-conditioned vehicle to the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. 10:30 –13:00Take cable car up to the Glacier Park When arrive at the Mountain, we'll ride a cable car from 3,000 meters above sea level to a scenic viewing point of Glacier Park at 4,506 meters, and marvel at the spectacular glacier and mountain views. The Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, a 22-mile (35-kilometer) chain of 13 peaks, boasts the southernmost glacier in the northern hemisphere and is named for its resemblance to a snow-laden dragon – one of China's enduring symbols. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain If you have enough time, you can stroll in Blue Moon Valley. It is a mesmerizing jewel nestled within the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Renowned for its striking turquoise hue, this lake's unique color is a result of glacial meltwater carrying fine white particles. Surrounded by lush forests and cascading waterfalls, Blue Moon Lake offers a serene and picturesque escape. 10:30 –13:00Take cable car up to the Glacier Park When arrive at the Mountain, we'll ride a cable car from 3,000 meters above sea level to a scenic viewing point of Glacier Park at 4,506 meters, and marvel at the spectacular glacier and mountain views. The Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, a 22-mile (35-kilometer) chain of 13 peaks, boasts the southernmost glacier in the northern hemisphere and is named for its resemblance to a snow-laden dragon – one of China's enduring symbols. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain If you have enough time, you can stroll in Blue Moon Valley. It is a mesmerizing jewel nestled within the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Renowned for its striking turquoise hue, this lake's unique color is a result of glacial meltwater carrying fine white particles. Surrounded by lush forests and cascading waterfalls, Blue Moon Lake offers a serene and picturesque escape. When arrive at the Mountain, we'll ride a cable car from 3,000 meters above sea level to a scenic viewing point of Glacier Park at 4,506 meters, and marvel at the spectacular glacier and mountain views. The Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, a 22-mile (35-kilometer) chain of 13 peaks, boasts the southernmost glacier in the northern hemisphere and is named for its resemblance to a snow-laden dragon – one of China's enduring symbols. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain If you have enough time, you can stroll in Blue Moon Valley. It is a mesmerizing jewel nestled within the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Renowned for its striking turquoise hue, this lake's unique color is a result of glacial meltwater carrying fine white particles. Surrounded by lush forests and cascading waterfalls, Blue Moon Lake offers a serene and picturesque escape. 13:30 – 14:30Lunch Time After leaving the scenic area, we will go to a local specialty restaurant for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. 13:30 – 14:30Lunch Time After leaving the scenic area, we will go to a local specialty restaurant for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. After leaving the scenic area, we will go to a local specialty restaurant for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Our guide would be very pleased to assist you with your order if you need. 14:30 – 16:00Visit Baisha Village In the afternoon, we will transfer to the Baisha Village and admire the famous Baisha murals here. Painted over a thousand years ago, the murals combine the cultures of Han, Tibetan and Naxi people displaying the life stories of the Tibet Buddhism, Confucian and Taoism. Have a relaxing walking in the Baisha Village and get to know about the local life and culture. Baisha village is a minority village, where the Naxi aborigines live. A shaman of the Naxi nationality is called a Dongba, and he is a master or wise man. In ancient times, a Dongba created the characters of the Naxi nationality’s written language, so the style of writing is now called the Dongba script. Nothing could be better than visiting a Dongba and his family if you are interested in the mysterious Naxi culture, its words and music, and the Naxi people’s understanding about the relationship between nature and humans. You will be impressed by the passion of the Naxi people for their lifestyle, homeland and love. 14:30 – 16:00Visit Baisha Village In the afternoon, we will transfer to the Baisha Village and admire the famous Baisha murals here. Painted over a thousand years ago, the murals combine the cultures of Han, Tibetan and Naxi people displaying the life stories of the Tibet Buddhism, Confucian and Taoism. Have a relaxing walking in the Baisha Village and get to know about the local life and culture. Baisha village is a minority village, where the Naxi aborigines live. A shaman of the Naxi nationality is called a Dongba, and he is a master or wise man. In ancient times, a Dongba created the characters of the Naxi nationality’s written language, so the style of writing is now called the Dongba script. Nothing could be better than visiting a Dongba and his family if you are interested in the mysterious Naxi culture, its words and music, and the Naxi people’s understanding about the relationship between nature and humans. You will be impressed by the passion of the Naxi people for their lifestyle, homeland and love. In the afternoon, we will transfer to the Baisha Village and admire the famous Baisha murals here. Painted over a thousand years ago, the murals combine the cultures of Han, Tibetan and Naxi people displaying the life stories of the Tibet Buddhism, Confucian and Taoism. Have a relaxing walking in the Baisha Village and get to know about the local life and culture. Baisha village is a minority village, where the Naxi aborigines live. A shaman of the Naxi nationality is called a Dongba, and he is a master or wise man. In ancient times, a Dongba created the characters of the Naxi nationality’s written language, so the style of writing is now called the Dongba script. Nothing could be better than visiting a Dongba and his family if you are interested in the mysterious Naxi culture, its words and music, and the Naxi people’s understanding about the relationship between nature and humans. You will be impressed by the passion of the Naxi people for their lifestyle, homeland and love. 16:20–17:00Return to Your Hotel We will transfer back to your hotel in Lijiang at the end of the tour. It will takes about half an hour to Lijiang Ancient Town. 16:20–17:00Return to Your Hotel We will transfer back to your hotel in Lijiang at the end of the tour. It will takes about half an hour to Lijiang Ancient Town. We will transfer back to your hotel in Lijiang at the end of the tour. It will takes about half an hour to Lijiang Ancient Town. Price Include: All entrance fees in the tour. Cable car at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking expert local guide. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: All entrance fees in the tour. Cable car at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking expert local guide. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: All entrance fees in the tour. Cable car at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking expert local guide. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • All entrance fees in the tour. • Cable car at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. • Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. • English-speaking expert local guide. • Lunch. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Lijiang. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Lijiang. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Lijiang. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Lijiang. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 167 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 167 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 167 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20