ID: 65df4962bfcb4ff1
Title: 1-day Lantau Island Tour with Door-to-door Transfer
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/hongkong/1-day-lantau-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Escape the hustle and bustle of Hong Kong Island and immerse yourself in the serene beauty of Lantau Island. Enjoy a private transfer from the airport, train station or your hotel to take the Ngong Ping 360 cable car crystal cabin and get a stunning full-view of Lantau Island. Explore the spiritual peace of Po Lin Monastery, admire the majesty of the Tian Tan Buddha, and stroll through the traditional fishing village of Tai O. Tour Highlights Enjoy door-to-door private transfer service to Lantau Island. Take round-way Ngong Ping 360 cable car crystal cabin for panorama views and Big Buddha. Explore the original Tai O fishing village by cruise and have a chance to meet pink dolphins. Comfortable air-conditional vehicle and knowledgeable tour guide are included. Detailed Itinerary Close All 8:30 amMeet your driver Your private driver will meet you in the hotel lobby at 08:30 and set out today's tour to Lantau Island on a 60-minute ride. Important Note: We will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts to double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. If you booked the tour without hotel private transfer service, you can go to the Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station on your own by taxi or public transportation. Lantau Island, the largest island in Hong Kong, boasts a picturesque landscape with its long, winding coastline, harbors, bays, mountains, and streams. This tranquil island offers is rich in natural beauty and historical sites that are sure to captivate your senses. With plenty of attractions to explore, a visit to Lantau Island can be a great getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life. Many famous attractions in Lantau Island include Po Lin Monastery, Tian Tan Buddha, Tai O, Tsing Ma Bridge, Wisdom Path etc. are worth visiting. 9:30 am–12:00 pmExperience the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car After arriving at Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station, please present the e-ticket with a QR code on-site to take the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car crystal cabin in 25 minutes to reach the peak by yourself. The guide will meet you at Holiday 360 Information Centre in Ngong Ping Village at 12:00. Important Note: The driver will no longer accompany you after taking you to the cable car station. You need to take the cable car by yourself and arrive at the meeting point at Holiday 360 Information Center before 12:00 PM to meet the tour guide and join in a group tour. We will take the Crystal Cabin of the ​​Cable Car (included) via a skip-the-line track that is saving 2 hours of queuing time compared to other cabins. It's recommended to start to queue at least before 10 am. If you can't get on the cable car before 11:20 am, please find a staff in the cable car ticket office immediately and show your confirmation to ask for help. Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car is famed as one of the world’s most amazing cable car experiences and the most spectacular way to reach Ngong Ping Village. During the 25-minute drive you can get breathtaking panorama of Hong Kong International Airport, South China Sea, verdant and mountainous terrain of Lantau Island, the giant Tian Tan Buddha, and 360-degree view of Ngong Ping Plateau. 12:15 –3:00 pmVisit Tai'O Village Next stop we will take a bus to explore the Venice of Hong Kong - Tai O. With a history of more than 500 years, it still retains most of its historical features, such as waterways, stilt houses, fishing boats and fishing village scenery. Like most small fishing towns near Hong Kong, Tai O operates at a much slower pace, which offers tourists a chance to escape the neon lights and towering buildings of the city. Upon arrival in Tai O, we will start to visit the fishing village and take a 20-minute boat tour to admire the canals and waterways of the fishing community. And sailing out of the village to the sea, and you will also see a world-class marvel - Hong Kong - Zhuhai - Macau Bridge (HZMB) that is an overlong sea-crossing bridge connecting Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau. Every tourist will be fascinated by its magnificance. If you are lucky, you may even see pink dolphins right next to you. Then walk through historical buildings in Tai O, go into a local villager's home and our guide will tell some interesting local fishing lives to you. You can also enjoy your free time to look around, eat some specialty food and buy some handicrafts (at your own expense). The traditional salted fish, shrimp paste and fish maw is well-known at home and abroad. We will get back to Ngong Ping Village at 3pm. 3:00–4:30 pmVisit Po Lin Monastery and Big Buddha When getting back to the Ngong Ping Village, go to visit the largest Buddhist temple of Hong Kong - Po Lin Monastery which is composed of palatial prayer halls, shrines, courtyards, gardens and a scripture library. Regarded as the Kingdom of Buddha in South and surrounded by green undulating hills, Po Lin Monastery enjoys high prestige among Hong Kong people. It was originally built in 1924 and developed into such a gigantic and majestic monastery. Go opposite the monastery, that is Tian Tan Big Buddha which is the biggest seated bronze Buddha in the world at 34 meters high. With a history of around 100 years, the Po Lin Monastery tops the four most prosperous Buddhist temples in Hong Kong.You can climb the 268 steps for a closer look at this remarkable statue, and from here you can also enjoy super views over the lush greenery of Lantau Island. 4:30 pmTake the cable car down and back to hotel Our group tour will end at the Po Lin Monastery around 4pm. You have free time walking around or take the 360 ​​cable car crystal cabin back to Tung Chung Station on your own. It's recommended to queue up for the cable car before 4:30pm which usually takes about half an hour. The queue time will exceed 1 hour if it's later than 4:30pm. Then, your private driver will wait for you where you dropped off in the morning and transfer back to your hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Hotel pickup and drop-off (optional). Round-way crystal cabin tickets of Ngong Ping 360 cable car . Professional English-speaking tour guide. Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. Fee of the shuttle bus between Ngong Ping Village and Tai O. Cruise tour in Tai O village. Price Excludes: Lunch. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? The Lantau Island day tour can not be cancelled. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Escape the hustle and bustle of Hong Kong Island and immerse yourself in the serene beauty of Lantau Island. Enjoy a private transfer from the airport, train station or your hotel to take the Ngong Ping 360 cable car crystal cabin and get a stunning full-view of Lantau Island. Explore the spiritual peace of Po Lin Monastery, admire the majesty of the Tian Tan Buddha, and stroll through the traditional fishing village of Tai O. Escape the hustle and bustle of Hong Kong Island and immerse yourself in the serene beauty of Lantau Island. Enjoy a private transfer from the airport, train station or your hotel to take the Ngong Ping 360 cable car crystal cabin and get a stunning full-view of Lantau Island. Explore the spiritual peace of Po Lin Monastery, admire the majesty of the Tian Tan Buddha, and stroll through the traditional fishing village of Tai O. Tour Highlights Enjoy door-to-door private transfer service to Lantau Island. Take round-way Ngong Ping 360 cable car crystal cabin for panorama views and Big Buddha. Explore the original Tai O fishing village by cruise and have a chance to meet pink dolphins. Comfortable air-conditional vehicle and knowledgeable tour guide are included. • Enjoy door-to-door private transfer service to Lantau Island. • Take round-way Ngong Ping 360 cable car crystal cabin for panorama views and Big Buddha. • Explore the original Tai O fishing village by cruise and have a chance to meet pink dolphins. • Comfortable air-conditional vehicle and knowledgeable tour guide are included. Detailed Itinerary Close All 8:30 amMeet your driver Your private driver will meet you in the hotel lobby at 08:30 and set out today's tour to Lantau Island on a 60-minute ride. Important Note: We will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts to double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. If you booked the tour without hotel private transfer service, you can go to the Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station on your own by taxi or public transportation. Lantau Island, the largest island in Hong Kong, boasts a picturesque landscape with its long, winding coastline, harbors, bays, mountains, and streams. This tranquil island offers is rich in natural beauty and historical sites that are sure to captivate your senses. With plenty of attractions to explore, a visit to Lantau Island can be a great getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life. Many famous attractions in Lantau Island include Po Lin Monastery, Tian Tan Buddha, Tai O, Tsing Ma Bridge, Wisdom Path etc. are worth visiting. 9:30 am–12:00 pmExperience the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car After arriving at Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station, please present the e-ticket with a QR code on-site to take the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car crystal cabin in 25 minutes to reach the peak by yourself. The guide will meet you at Holiday 360 Information Centre in Ngong Ping Village at 12:00. Important Note: The driver will no longer accompany you after taking you to the cable car station. You need to take the cable car by yourself and arrive at the meeting point at Holiday 360 Information Center before 12:00 PM to meet the tour guide and join in a group tour. We will take the Crystal Cabin of the ​​Cable Car (included) via a skip-the-line track that is saving 2 hours of queuing time compared to other cabins. It's recommended to start to queue at least before 10 am. If you can't get on the cable car before 11:20 am, please find a staff in the cable car ticket office immediately and show your confirmation to ask for help. Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car is famed as one of the world’s most amazing cable car experiences and the most spectacular way to reach Ngong Ping Village. During the 25-minute drive you can get breathtaking panorama of Hong Kong International Airport, South China Sea, verdant and mountainous terrain of Lantau Island, the giant Tian Tan Buddha, and 360-degree view of Ngong Ping Plateau. 12:15 –3:00 pmVisit Tai'O Village Next stop we will take a bus to explore the Venice of Hong Kong - Tai O. With a history of more than 500 years, it still retains most of its historical features, such as waterways, stilt houses, fishing boats and fishing village scenery. Like most small fishing towns near Hong Kong, Tai O operates at a much slower pace, which offers tourists a chance to escape the neon lights and towering buildings of the city. Upon arrival in Tai O, we will start to visit the fishing village and take a 20-minute boat tour to admire the canals and waterways of the fishing community. And sailing out of the village to the sea, and you will also see a world-class marvel - Hong Kong - Zhuhai - Macau Bridge (HZMB) that is an overlong sea-crossing bridge connecting Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau. Every tourist will be fascinated by its magnificance. If you are lucky, you may even see pink dolphins right next to you. Then walk through historical buildings in Tai O, go into a local villager's home and our guide will tell some interesting local fishing lives to you. You can also enjoy your free time to look around, eat some specialty food and buy some handicrafts (at your own expense). The traditional salted fish, shrimp paste and fish maw is well-known at home and abroad. We will get back to Ngong Ping Village at 3pm. 3:00–4:30 pmVisit Po Lin Monastery and Big Buddha When getting back to the Ngong Ping Village, go to visit the largest Buddhist temple of Hong Kong - Po Lin Monastery which is composed of palatial prayer halls, shrines, courtyards, gardens and a scripture library. Regarded as the Kingdom of Buddha in South and surrounded by green undulating hills, Po Lin Monastery enjoys high prestige among Hong Kong people. It was originally built in 1924 and developed into such a gigantic and majestic monastery. Go opposite the monastery, that is Tian Tan Big Buddha which is the biggest seated bronze Buddha in the world at 34 meters high. With a history of around 100 years, the Po Lin Monastery tops the four most prosperous Buddhist temples in Hong Kong.You can climb the 268 steps for a closer look at this remarkable statue, and from here you can also enjoy super views over the lush greenery of Lantau Island. 4:30 pmTake the cable car down and back to hotel Our group tour will end at the Po Lin Monastery around 4pm. You have free time walking around or take the 360 ​​cable car crystal cabin back to Tung Chung Station on your own. It's recommended to queue up for the cable car before 4:30pm which usually takes about half an hour. The queue time will exceed 1 hour if it's later than 4:30pm. Then, your private driver will wait for you where you dropped off in the morning and transfer back to your hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Close All 8:30 amMeet your driver Your private driver will meet you in the hotel lobby at 08:30 and set out today's tour to Lantau Island on a 60-minute ride. Important Note: We will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts to double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. If you booked the tour without hotel private transfer service, you can go to the Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station on your own by taxi or public transportation. Lantau Island, the largest island in Hong Kong, boasts a picturesque landscape with its long, winding coastline, harbors, bays, mountains, and streams. This tranquil island offers is rich in natural beauty and historical sites that are sure to captivate your senses. With plenty of attractions to explore, a visit to Lantau Island can be a great getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life. Many famous attractions in Lantau Island include Po Lin Monastery, Tian Tan Buddha, Tai O, Tsing Ma Bridge, Wisdom Path etc. are worth visiting. 9:30 am–12:00 pmExperience the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car After arriving at Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station, please present the e-ticket with a QR code on-site to take the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car crystal cabin in 25 minutes to reach the peak by yourself. The guide will meet you at Holiday 360 Information Centre in Ngong Ping Village at 12:00. Important Note: The driver will no longer accompany you after taking you to the cable car station. You need to take the cable car by yourself and arrive at the meeting point at Holiday 360 Information Center before 12:00 PM to meet the tour guide and join in a group tour. We will take the Crystal Cabin of the ​​Cable Car (included) via a skip-the-line track that is saving 2 hours of queuing time compared to other cabins. It's recommended to start to queue at least before 10 am. If you can't get on the cable car before 11:20 am, please find a staff in the cable car ticket office immediately and show your confirmation to ask for help. Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car is famed as one of the world’s most amazing cable car experiences and the most spectacular way to reach Ngong Ping Village. During the 25-minute drive you can get breathtaking panorama of Hong Kong International Airport, South China Sea, verdant and mountainous terrain of Lantau Island, the giant Tian Tan Buddha, and 360-degree view of Ngong Ping Plateau. 12:15 –3:00 pmVisit Tai'O Village Next stop we will take a bus to explore the Venice of Hong Kong - Tai O. With a history of more than 500 years, it still retains most of its historical features, such as waterways, stilt houses, fishing boats and fishing village scenery. Like most small fishing towns near Hong Kong, Tai O operates at a much slower pace, which offers tourists a chance to escape the neon lights and towering buildings of the city. Upon arrival in Tai O, we will start to visit the fishing village and take a 20-minute boat tour to admire the canals and waterways of the fishing community. And sailing out of the village to the sea, and you will also see a world-class marvel - Hong Kong - Zhuhai - Macau Bridge (HZMB) that is an overlong sea-crossing bridge connecting Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau. Every tourist will be fascinated by its magnificance. If you are lucky, you may even see pink dolphins right next to you. Then walk through historical buildings in Tai O, go into a local villager's home and our guide will tell some interesting local fishing lives to you. You can also enjoy your free time to look around, eat some specialty food and buy some handicrafts (at your own expense). The traditional salted fish, shrimp paste and fish maw is well-known at home and abroad. We will get back to Ngong Ping Village at 3pm. 3:00–4:30 pmVisit Po Lin Monastery and Big Buddha When getting back to the Ngong Ping Village, go to visit the largest Buddhist temple of Hong Kong - Po Lin Monastery which is composed of palatial prayer halls, shrines, courtyards, gardens and a scripture library. Regarded as the Kingdom of Buddha in South and surrounded by green undulating hills, Po Lin Monastery enjoys high prestige among Hong Kong people. It was originally built in 1924 and developed into such a gigantic and majestic monastery. Go opposite the monastery, that is Tian Tan Big Buddha which is the biggest seated bronze Buddha in the world at 34 meters high. With a history of around 100 years, the Po Lin Monastery tops the four most prosperous Buddhist temples in Hong Kong.You can climb the 268 steps for a closer look at this remarkable statue, and from here you can also enjoy super views over the lush greenery of Lantau Island. 4:30 pmTake the cable car down and back to hotel Our group tour will end at the Po Lin Monastery around 4pm. You have free time walking around or take the 360 ​​cable car crystal cabin back to Tung Chung Station on your own. It's recommended to queue up for the cable car before 4:30pm which usually takes about half an hour. The queue time will exceed 1 hour if it's later than 4:30pm. Then, your private driver will wait for you where you dropped off in the morning and transfer back to your hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ 8:30 amMeet your driver Your private driver will meet you in the hotel lobby at 08:30 and set out today's tour to Lantau Island on a 60-minute ride. Important Note: We will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts to double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. If you booked the tour without hotel private transfer service, you can go to the Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station on your own by taxi or public transportation. Lantau Island, the largest island in Hong Kong, boasts a picturesque landscape with its long, winding coastline, harbors, bays, mountains, and streams. This tranquil island offers is rich in natural beauty and historical sites that are sure to captivate your senses. With plenty of attractions to explore, a visit to Lantau Island can be a great getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life. Many famous attractions in Lantau Island include Po Lin Monastery, Tian Tan Buddha, Tai O, Tsing Ma Bridge, Wisdom Path etc. are worth visiting. 8:30 amMeet your driver Your private driver will meet you in the hotel lobby at 08:30 and set out today's tour to Lantau Island on a 60-minute ride. Important Note: We will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts to double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. If you booked the tour without hotel private transfer service, you can go to the Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station on your own by taxi or public transportation. Lantau Island, the largest island in Hong Kong, boasts a picturesque landscape with its long, winding coastline, harbors, bays, mountains, and streams. This tranquil island offers is rich in natural beauty and historical sites that are sure to captivate your senses. With plenty of attractions to explore, a visit to Lantau Island can be a great getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life. Many famous attractions in Lantau Island include Po Lin Monastery, Tian Tan Buddha, Tai O, Tsing Ma Bridge, Wisdom Path etc. are worth visiting. Your private driver will meet you in the hotel lobby at 08:30 and set out today's tour to Lantau Island on a 60-minute ride. • We will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts to double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. • If you booked the tour without hotel private transfer service, you can go to the Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station on your own by taxi or public transportation. Lantau Island, the largest island in Hong Kong, boasts a picturesque landscape with its long, winding coastline, harbors, bays, mountains, and streams. This tranquil island offers is rich in natural beauty and historical sites that are sure to captivate your senses. With plenty of attractions to explore, a visit to Lantau Island can be a great getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life. Many famous attractions in Lantau Island include Po Lin Monastery, Tian Tan Buddha, Tai O, Tsing Ma Bridge, Wisdom Path etc. are worth visiting. 9:30 am–12:00 pmExperience the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car After arriving at Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station, please present the e-ticket with a QR code on-site to take the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car crystal cabin in 25 minutes to reach the peak by yourself. The guide will meet you at Holiday 360 Information Centre in Ngong Ping Village at 12:00. Important Note: The driver will no longer accompany you after taking you to the cable car station. You need to take the cable car by yourself and arrive at the meeting point at Holiday 360 Information Center before 12:00 PM to meet the tour guide and join in a group tour. We will take the Crystal Cabin of the ​​Cable Car (included) via a skip-the-line track that is saving 2 hours of queuing time compared to other cabins. It's recommended to start to queue at least before 10 am. If you can't get on the cable car before 11:20 am, please find a staff in the cable car ticket office immediately and show your confirmation to ask for help. Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car is famed as one of the world’s most amazing cable car experiences and the most spectacular way to reach Ngong Ping Village. During the 25-minute drive you can get breathtaking panorama of Hong Kong International Airport, South China Sea, verdant and mountainous terrain of Lantau Island, the giant Tian Tan Buddha, and 360-degree view of Ngong Ping Plateau. 9:30 am–12:00 pmExperience the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car After arriving at Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station, please present the e-ticket with a QR code on-site to take the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car crystal cabin in 25 minutes to reach the peak by yourself. The guide will meet you at Holiday 360 Information Centre in Ngong Ping Village at 12:00. Important Note: The driver will no longer accompany you after taking you to the cable car station. You need to take the cable car by yourself and arrive at the meeting point at Holiday 360 Information Center before 12:00 PM to meet the tour guide and join in a group tour. We will take the Crystal Cabin of the ​​Cable Car (included) via a skip-the-line track that is saving 2 hours of queuing time compared to other cabins. It's recommended to start to queue at least before 10 am. If you can't get on the cable car before 11:20 am, please find a staff in the cable car ticket office immediately and show your confirmation to ask for help. Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car is famed as one of the world’s most amazing cable car experiences and the most spectacular way to reach Ngong Ping Village. During the 25-minute drive you can get breathtaking panorama of Hong Kong International Airport, South China Sea, verdant and mountainous terrain of Lantau Island, the giant Tian Tan Buddha, and 360-degree view of Ngong Ping Plateau. After arriving at Ngong Ping Cable Car Tung Chung Station, please present the e-ticket with a QR code on-site to take the Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car crystal cabin in 25 minutes to reach the peak by yourself. The guide will meet you at Holiday 360 Information Centre in Ngong Ping Village at 12:00. • The driver will no longer accompany you after taking you to the cable car station. You need to take the cable car by yourself and arrive at the meeting point at Holiday 360 Information Center before 12:00 PM to meet the tour guide and join in a group tour. • We will take the Crystal Cabin of the ​​Cable Car (included) via a skip-the-line track that is saving 2 hours of queuing time compared to other cabins. It's recommended to start to queue at least before 10 am. • If you can't get on the cable car before 11:20 am, please find a staff in the cable car ticket office immediately and show your confirmation to ask for help. Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car is famed as one of the world’s most amazing cable car experiences and the most spectacular way to reach Ngong Ping Village. During the 25-minute drive you can get breathtaking panorama of Hong Kong International Airport, South China Sea, verdant and mountainous terrain of Lantau Island, the giant Tian Tan Buddha, and 360-degree view of Ngong Ping Plateau. 12:15 –3:00 pmVisit Tai'O Village Next stop we will take a bus to explore the Venice of Hong Kong - Tai O. With a history of more than 500 years, it still retains most of its historical features, such as waterways, stilt houses, fishing boats and fishing village scenery. Like most small fishing towns near Hong Kong, Tai O operates at a much slower pace, which offers tourists a chance to escape the neon lights and towering buildings of the city. Upon arrival in Tai O, we will start to visit the fishing village and take a 20-minute boat tour to admire the canals and waterways of the fishing community. And sailing out of the village to the sea, and you will also see a world-class marvel - Hong Kong - Zhuhai - Macau Bridge (HZMB) that is an overlong sea-crossing bridge connecting Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau. Every tourist will be fascinated by its magnificance. If you are lucky, you may even see pink dolphins right next to you. Then walk through historical buildings in Tai O, go into a local villager's home and our guide will tell some interesting local fishing lives to you. You can also enjoy your free time to look around, eat some specialty food and buy some handicrafts (at your own expense). The traditional salted fish, shrimp paste and fish maw is well-known at home and abroad. We will get back to Ngong Ping Village at 3pm. 12:15 –3:00 pmVisit Tai'O Village Next stop we will take a bus to explore the Venice of Hong Kong - Tai O. With a history of more than 500 years, it still retains most of its historical features, such as waterways, stilt houses, fishing boats and fishing village scenery. Like most small fishing towns near Hong Kong, Tai O operates at a much slower pace, which offers tourists a chance to escape the neon lights and towering buildings of the city. Upon arrival in Tai O, we will start to visit the fishing village and take a 20-minute boat tour to admire the canals and waterways of the fishing community. And sailing out of the village to the sea, and you will also see a world-class marvel - Hong Kong - Zhuhai - Macau Bridge (HZMB) that is an overlong sea-crossing bridge connecting Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau. Every tourist will be fascinated by its magnificance. If you are lucky, you may even see pink dolphins right next to you. Then walk through historical buildings in Tai O, go into a local villager's home and our guide will tell some interesting local fishing lives to you. You can also enjoy your free time to look around, eat some specialty food and buy some handicrafts (at your own expense). The traditional salted fish, shrimp paste and fish maw is well-known at home and abroad. We will get back to Ngong Ping Village at 3pm. Next stop we will take a bus to explore the Venice of Hong Kong - Tai O. With a history of more than 500 years, it still retains most of its historical features, such as waterways, stilt houses, fishing boats and fishing village scenery. Like most small fishing towns near Hong Kong, Tai O operates at a much slower pace, which offers tourists a chance to escape the neon lights and towering buildings of the city. Upon arrival in Tai O, we will start to visit the fishing village and take a 20-minute boat tour to admire the canals and waterways of the fishing community. And sailing out of the village to the sea, and you will also see a world-class marvel - Hong Kong - Zhuhai - Macau Bridge (HZMB) that is an overlong sea-crossing bridge connecting Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau. Every tourist will be fascinated by its magnificance. If you are lucky, you may even see pink dolphins right next to you. Then walk through historical buildings in Tai O, go into a local villager's home and our guide will tell some interesting local fishing lives to you. You can also enjoy your free time to look around, eat some specialty food and buy some handicrafts (at your own expense). The traditional salted fish, shrimp paste and fish maw is well-known at home and abroad. We will get back to Ngong Ping Village at 3pm. 3:00–4:30 pmVisit Po Lin Monastery and Big Buddha When getting back to the Ngong Ping Village, go to visit the largest Buddhist temple of Hong Kong - Po Lin Monastery which is composed of palatial prayer halls, shrines, courtyards, gardens and a scripture library. Regarded as the Kingdom of Buddha in South and surrounded by green undulating hills, Po Lin Monastery enjoys high prestige among Hong Kong people. It was originally built in 1924 and developed into such a gigantic and majestic monastery. Go opposite the monastery, that is Tian Tan Big Buddha which is the biggest seated bronze Buddha in the world at 34 meters high. With a history of around 100 years, the Po Lin Monastery tops the four most prosperous Buddhist temples in Hong Kong.You can climb the 268 steps for a closer look at this remarkable statue, and from here you can also enjoy super views over the lush greenery of Lantau Island. 3:00–4:30 pmVisit Po Lin Monastery and Big Buddha When getting back to the Ngong Ping Village, go to visit the largest Buddhist temple of Hong Kong - Po Lin Monastery which is composed of palatial prayer halls, shrines, courtyards, gardens and a scripture library. Regarded as the Kingdom of Buddha in South and surrounded by green undulating hills, Po Lin Monastery enjoys high prestige among Hong Kong people. It was originally built in 1924 and developed into such a gigantic and majestic monastery. Go opposite the monastery, that is Tian Tan Big Buddha which is the biggest seated bronze Buddha in the world at 34 meters high. With a history of around 100 years, the Po Lin Monastery tops the four most prosperous Buddhist temples in Hong Kong.You can climb the 268 steps for a closer look at this remarkable statue, and from here you can also enjoy super views over the lush greenery of Lantau Island. When getting back to the Ngong Ping Village, go to visit the largest Buddhist temple of Hong Kong - Po Lin Monastery which is composed of palatial prayer halls, shrines, courtyards, gardens and a scripture library. Regarded as the Kingdom of Buddha in South and surrounded by green undulating hills, Po Lin Monastery enjoys high prestige among Hong Kong people. It was originally built in 1924 and developed into such a gigantic and majestic monastery. Go opposite the monastery, that is Tian Tan Big Buddha which is the biggest seated bronze Buddha in the world at 34 meters high. With a history of around 100 years, the Po Lin Monastery tops the four most prosperous Buddhist temples in Hong Kong.You can climb the 268 steps for a closer look at this remarkable statue, and from here you can also enjoy super views over the lush greenery of Lantau Island. 4:30 pmTake the cable car down and back to hotel Our group tour will end at the Po Lin Monastery around 4pm. You have free time walking around or take the 360 ​​cable car crystal cabin back to Tung Chung Station on your own. It's recommended to queue up for the cable car before 4:30pm which usually takes about half an hour. The queue time will exceed 1 hour if it's later than 4:30pm. Then, your private driver will wait for you where you dropped off in the morning and transfer back to your hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ 4:30 pmTake the cable car down and back to hotel Our group tour will end at the Po Lin Monastery around 4pm. You have free time walking around or take the 360 ​​cable car crystal cabin back to Tung Chung Station on your own. It's recommended to queue up for the cable car before 4:30pm which usually takes about half an hour. The queue time will exceed 1 hour if it's later than 4:30pm. Then, your private driver will wait for you where you dropped off in the morning and transfer back to your hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Our group tour will end at the Po Lin Monastery around 4pm. You have free time walking around or take the 360 ​​cable car crystal cabin back to Tung Chung Station on your own. It's recommended to queue up for the cable car before 4:30pm which usually takes about half an hour. The queue time will exceed 1 hour if it's later than 4:30pm. Then, your private driver will wait for you where you dropped off in the morning and transfer back to your hotel. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Hotel pickup and drop-off (optional). Round-way crystal cabin tickets of Ngong Ping 360 cable car . Professional English-speaking tour guide. Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. Fee of the shuttle bus between Ngong Ping Village and Tai O. Cruise tour in Tai O village. Price Excludes: Lunch. Personal expenses. Price Includes: Hotel pickup and drop-off (optional). Round-way crystal cabin tickets of Ngong Ping 360 cable car . Professional English-speaking tour guide. Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. Fee of the shuttle bus between Ngong Ping Village and Tai O. Cruise tour in Tai O village. Price Excludes: Lunch. Personal expenses. Price Includes: Hotel pickup and drop-off (optional). Round-way crystal cabin tickets of Ngong Ping 360 cable car . Professional English-speaking tour guide. Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. Fee of the shuttle bus between Ngong Ping Village and Tai O. Cruise tour in Tai O village. Price Excludes: Lunch. Personal expenses. • Hotel pickup and drop-off (optional). • Round-way crystal cabin tickets of Ngong Ping 360 cable car . • Professional English-speaking tour guide. • Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. • Fee of the shuttle bus between Ngong Ping Village and Tai O. • Cruise tour in Tai O village. • Lunch. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? The Lantau Island day tour can not be cancelled. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? The Lantau Island day tour can not be cancelled. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? The Lantau Island day tour can not be cancelled. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • The Lantau Island day tour can not be cancelled. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 132 p/p Transfer Type Lantau Island Tour with Private Transfer Lantau Island Tour without Private Transfer No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 132 p/p Transfer Type Lantau Island Tour with Private Transfer Lantau Island Tour without Private Transfer No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 132 p/p Transfer Type Lantau Island Tour with Private Transfer Lantau Island Tour without Private Transfer No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type Lantau Island Tour with Private Transfer Lantau Island Tour without Private Transfer No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20