ID: 6b1497e11ad5f2d8
Title: China Panda Tours 2026, Panda Volunteer Program Tours
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tour/china-panda-tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

As the first tour operator to arrange panda volunteer programs, China Highlights proudly provides various types of panda tours to meet your requirements. From visiting pandas in a zoo to seeing baby pandas in a sanctuary, being a panda volunteer to tracking wild pandas in a remote nature reserve, your wish is our command. How to Plan a Chengdu Panda Volunteer Program Tour? Click to know more. Currently, Dujiangyan Panda Base, Bifengxia Panda Base, and Wolong Panda Base offer giant panda volunteer programs. For a time-smart day tour, Dujiangyan Panda Base is the best place to join in a one-day panda volunteer experience. It is more accessible and offers a wide variety of activities. For two- or multi-day tours, we recommend Wolong Panda Base. It provides a more natural and undisturbed living environment for pandas. Besides the giant panda volunteer program, Wolong Panda Base also offers a red panda volunteer program and a baby panda volunteer program. Our recommended panda tours below are designed to help you start to plan a memorable trip in China. Feel free to tell us your requirements and interests — our experienced travel advisors are ready to tailor-make your dream trip. Best Panda Volunteer Program Tours Be a Panda Keeper One Day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program Tour Prepare food for a panda Get a unique certificate View More Explore the Real Hometown of Wild Pandas 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour New panda base Observe panda closely View More Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Panda Volunteer and China Classic Wonder Tour Best for a family tour in summer Cover the most famous sights in China View More Top China Panda Tours These are the most popular China tours with panda experiences for panda lovers. We have designed various itinerary including Chengdu and the other main cities of China to meet your requirements. All can be customized. A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour Best for panda fans' first China tour Be a panda keeper View More Discover the Fairyland of Your Dreams 4-Day Essential Chengdu and In-Depth Jiuzhaigou Tour Best for panda and nature fans Dreamlike Jiuzhaigou valley View More Decode the Legends of the Largest Sitting Buddha 3-Day Giant Panda, Giant Buddha, and Ancient Town Tour A good choice for panda fans and foodies Experience the local lifestyle View More Chengdu and Its UNESCO Neighbors 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan and Mount. Emei Tour A good choice for panda and culture fans All the highlights of Chengdu View More As the first tour operator to arrange panda volunteer programs, China Highlights proudly provides various types of panda tours to meet your requirements. From visiting pandas in a zoo to seeing baby pandas in a sanctuary, being a panda volunteer to tracking wild pandas in a remote nature reserve, your wish is our command. How to Plan a Chengdu Panda Volunteer Program Tour? Click to know more. Currently, Dujiangyan Panda Base, Bifengxia Panda Base, and Wolong Panda Base offer giant panda volunteer programs. For a time-smart day tour, Dujiangyan Panda Base is the best place to join in a one-day panda volunteer experience. It is more accessible and offers a wide variety of activities. For two- or multi-day tours, we recommend Wolong Panda Base. It provides a more natural and undisturbed living environment for pandas. Besides the giant panda volunteer program, Wolong Panda Base also offers a red panda volunteer program and a baby panda volunteer program. How to Plan a Chengdu Panda Volunteer Program Tour? Click to know more. Currently, Dujiangyan Panda Base, Bifengxia Panda Base, and Wolong Panda Base offer giant panda volunteer programs. For a time-smart day tour, Dujiangyan Panda Base is the best place to join in a one-day panda volunteer experience. It is more accessible and offers a wide variety of activities. For two- or multi-day tours, we recommend Wolong Panda Base. It provides a more natural and undisturbed living environment for pandas. Besides the giant panda volunteer program, Wolong Panda Base also offers a red panda volunteer program and a baby panda volunteer program. Currently, Dujiangyan Panda Base, Bifengxia Panda Base, and Wolong Panda Base offer giant panda volunteer programs. For a time-smart day tour, Dujiangyan Panda Base is the best place to join in a one-day panda volunteer experience. It is more accessible and offers a wide variety of activities. For two- or multi-day tours, we recommend Wolong Panda Base. It provides a more natural and undisturbed living environment for pandas. Besides the giant panda volunteer program, Wolong Panda Base also offers a red panda volunteer program and a baby panda volunteer program. Our recommended panda tours below are designed to help you start to plan a memorable trip in China. Feel free to tell us your requirements and interests — our experienced travel advisors are ready to tailor-make your dream trip. Best Panda Volunteer Program Tours Be a Panda Keeper One Day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program Tour Prepare food for a panda Get a unique certificate View More Explore the Real Hometown of Wild Pandas 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour New panda base Observe panda closely View More Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Panda Volunteer and China Classic Wonder Tour Best for a family tour in summer Cover the most famous sights in China View More Be a Panda Keeper One Day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program Tour Prepare food for a panda Get a unique certificate View More One Day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program Tour Prepare food for a panda Get a unique certificate View More • Prepare food for a panda • Get a unique certificate Explore the Real Hometown of Wild Pandas 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour New panda base Observe panda closely View More Explore the Real Hometown of Wild Pandas 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour New panda base Observe panda closely View More • New panda base • Observe panda closely Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Panda Volunteer and China Classic Wonder Tour Best for a family tour in summer Cover the most famous sights in China View More Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Panda Volunteer and China Classic Wonder Tour Best for a family tour in summer Cover the most famous sights in China View More • Best for a family tour in summer • Cover the most famous sights in China Top China Panda Tours These are the most popular China tours with panda experiences for panda lovers. We have designed various itinerary including Chengdu and the other main cities of China to meet your requirements. All can be customized. A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour Best for panda fans' first China tour Be a panda keeper View More Discover the Fairyland of Your Dreams 4-Day Essential Chengdu and In-Depth Jiuzhaigou Tour Best for panda and nature fans Dreamlike Jiuzhaigou valley View More Decode the Legends of the Largest Sitting Buddha 3-Day Giant Panda, Giant Buddha, and Ancient Town Tour A good choice for panda fans and foodies Experience the local lifestyle View More Chengdu and Its UNESCO Neighbors 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan and Mount. Emei Tour A good choice for panda and culture fans All the highlights of Chengdu View More A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour Best for panda fans' first China tour Be a panda keeper View More A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour Best for panda fans' first China tour Be a panda keeper View More • Best for panda fans' first China tour • Be a panda keeper Discover the Fairyland of Your Dreams 4-Day Essential Chengdu and In-Depth Jiuzhaigou Tour Best for panda and nature fans Dreamlike Jiuzhaigou valley View More Discover the Fairyland of Your Dreams 4-Day Essential Chengdu and In-Depth Jiuzhaigou Tour Best for panda and nature fans Dreamlike Jiuzhaigou valley View More • Best for panda and nature fans • Dreamlike Jiuzhaigou valley Decode the Legends of the Largest Sitting Buddha 3-Day Giant Panda, Giant Buddha, and Ancient Town Tour A good choice for panda fans and foodies Experience the local lifestyle View More Decode the Legends of the Largest Sitting Buddha 3-Day Giant Panda, Giant Buddha, and Ancient Town Tour A good choice for panda fans and foodies Experience the local lifestyle View More • A good choice for panda fans and foodies • Experience the local lifestyle Chengdu and Its UNESCO Neighbors 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan and Mount. Emei Tour A good choice for panda and culture fans All the highlights of Chengdu View More Chengdu and Its UNESCO Neighbors 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan and Mount. Emei Tour A good choice for panda and culture fans All the highlights of Chengdu View More • A good choice for panda and culture fans • All the highlights of Chengdu Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Day Tours with Panda Experiences The tours below are recommended if you would like to combine a panda experience with the other must-sees or your interests in Chengdu. The Best of Chengdu 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Sichuan Cuisine Tour A time-smart way to meet pandas Sichuan cuisine cooking experience View More Panda Wonderland Tour 1-Day Chengdu Panda Wonderland Tour Cuddly pandas. Largest panda sculpture. View More Kungfu Panda Tour 1-Day Kung Fu Panda Tour to Mount Qingcheng Adorable panda families Po's Hometown-Panda Village View More Cuddly and Mysterious Kingdoms 1-Day Chengdu Tour for Pandas and Sanxingdui Museum Meet pandas Sanxingdui Museum View More Day Tours with Panda Experiences The tours below are recommended if you would like to combine a panda experience with the other must-sees or your interests in Chengdu. The Best of Chengdu 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Sichuan Cuisine Tour A time-smart way to meet pandas Sichuan cuisine cooking experience View More Panda Wonderland Tour 1-Day Chengdu Panda Wonderland Tour Cuddly pandas. Largest panda sculpture. View More Kungfu Panda Tour 1-Day Kung Fu Panda Tour to Mount Qingcheng Adorable panda families Po's Hometown-Panda Village View More Cuddly and Mysterious Kingdoms 1-Day Chengdu Tour for Pandas and Sanxingdui Museum Meet pandas Sanxingdui Museum View More The Best of Chengdu 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Sichuan Cuisine Tour A time-smart way to meet pandas Sichuan cuisine cooking experience View More 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Sichuan Cuisine Tour A time-smart way to meet pandas Sichuan cuisine cooking experience View More • A time-smart way to meet pandas • Sichuan cuisine cooking experience Panda Wonderland Tour 1-Day Chengdu Panda Wonderland Tour Cuddly pandas. Largest panda sculpture. View More Panda Wonderland Tour 1-Day Chengdu Panda Wonderland Tour Cuddly pandas. Largest panda sculpture. View More • Cuddly pandas. • Largest panda sculpture. Kungfu Panda Tour 1-Day Kung Fu Panda Tour to Mount Qingcheng Adorable panda families Po's Hometown-Panda Village View More 1-Day Kung Fu Panda Tour to Mount Qingcheng Adorable panda families Po's Hometown-Panda Village View More • Adorable panda families • Po's Hometown-Panda Village Cuddly and Mysterious Kingdoms 1-Day Chengdu Tour for Pandas and Sanxingdui Museum Meet pandas Sanxingdui Museum View More Cuddly and Mysterious Kingdoms 1-Day Chengdu Tour for Pandas and Sanxingdui Museum Meet pandas Sanxingdui Museum View More • Meet pandas • Sanxingdui Museum FAQs for China Panda Tours Expand All 1. Chengdu Panda Base Touring Map 2. Where can I see pandas? The best place to see giant pandas is surely in their "home city" — Chengdu. It's the only place in the world where you can be a panda volunteer and take a photo next to a panda. If you would like to see wild pandas in their natural habitat, we can arrange a wild panda tracking tour in Wolong nature reserve for you. Visiting Wolong with China Highlights, you will also have a chance to spend a private evening with a panda! You can also see giant pandas in zoos of the following cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Guangzhou, Macau, and Hong Kong. 3. What's the best time to see pandas? It is best to visit during pandas' meal times or play times. Early in the morning from 8:30 to 10:30 is very suitable, when pandas come out to eat and play. March to May is the mating period for pandas, so baby pandas are usually born between June and September. If you come between September and December, you will have a greater chance of seeing active baby pandas in the panda bases. 4. Who can join a panda volunteer program? The age restriction for volunteers is 10 to 70 years old. Even though pandas may look harmless, they are large omnivores and should be given the same respect as bears. Parents must ensure that they prevent their children from coming into direct contact with the pandas. The cost for children of 10 years old and above is the same as the cost for adults. If your children are between 0–9 years old, you can still take them with you during the program. The children can not enter the room where the panda cage is. Your guide can help take care of them if you like. FAQs for China Panda Tours Expand All 1. Chengdu Panda Base Touring Map 2. Where can I see pandas? The best place to see giant pandas is surely in their "home city" — Chengdu. It's the only place in the world where you can be a panda volunteer and take a photo next to a panda. If you would like to see wild pandas in their natural habitat, we can arrange a wild panda tracking tour in Wolong nature reserve for you. Visiting Wolong with China Highlights, you will also have a chance to spend a private evening with a panda! You can also see giant pandas in zoos of the following cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Guangzhou, Macau, and Hong Kong. 3. What's the best time to see pandas? It is best to visit during pandas' meal times or play times. Early in the morning from 8:30 to 10:30 is very suitable, when pandas come out to eat and play. March to May is the mating period for pandas, so baby pandas are usually born between June and September. If you come between September and December, you will have a greater chance of seeing active baby pandas in the panda bases. 4. Who can join a panda volunteer program? The age restriction for volunteers is 10 to 70 years old. Even though pandas may look harmless, they are large omnivores and should be given the same respect as bears. Parents must ensure that they prevent their children from coming into direct contact with the pandas. The cost for children of 10 years old and above is the same as the cost for adults. If your children are between 0–9 years old, you can still take them with you during the program. The children can not enter the room where the panda cage is. Your guide can help take care of them if you like. FAQs for China Panda Tours Expand All 1. Chengdu Panda Base Touring Map 2. Where can I see pandas? The best place to see giant pandas is surely in their "home city" — Chengdu. It's the only place in the world where you can be a panda volunteer and take a photo next to a panda. If you would like to see wild pandas in their natural habitat, we can arrange a wild panda tracking tour in Wolong nature reserve for you. Visiting Wolong with China Highlights, you will also have a chance to spend a private evening with a panda! You can also see giant pandas in zoos of the following cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Guangzhou, Macau, and Hong Kong. 3. What's the best time to see pandas? It is best to visit during pandas' meal times or play times. Early in the morning from 8:30 to 10:30 is very suitable, when pandas come out to eat and play. March to May is the mating period for pandas, so baby pandas are usually born between June and September. If you come between September and December, you will have a greater chance of seeing active baby pandas in the panda bases. 4. Who can join a panda volunteer program? The age restriction for volunteers is 10 to 70 years old. Even though pandas may look harmless, they are large omnivores and should be given the same respect as bears. Parents must ensure that they prevent their children from coming into direct contact with the pandas. The cost for children of 10 years old and above is the same as the cost for adults. If your children are between 0–9 years old, you can still take them with you during the program. The children can not enter the room where the panda cage is. Your guide can help take care of them if you like. 1. Chengdu Panda Base Touring Map 2. Where can I see pandas? The best place to see giant pandas is surely in their "home city" — Chengdu. It's the only place in the world where you can be a panda volunteer and take a photo next to a panda. If you would like to see wild pandas in their natural habitat, we can arrange a wild panda tracking tour in Wolong nature reserve for you. Visiting Wolong with China Highlights, you will also have a chance to spend a private evening with a panda! You can also see giant pandas in zoos of the following cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Guangzhou, Macau, and Hong Kong. The best place to see giant pandas is surely in their "home city" — Chengdu. It's the only place in the world where you can be a panda volunteer and take a photo next to a panda. If you would like to see wild pandas in their natural habitat, we can arrange a wild panda tracking tour in Wolong nature reserve for you. Visiting Wolong with China Highlights, you will also have a chance to spend a private evening with a panda! You can also see giant pandas in zoos of the following cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Guangzhou, Macau, and Hong Kong. 3. What's the best time to see pandas? It is best to visit during pandas' meal times or play times. Early in the morning from 8:30 to 10:30 is very suitable, when pandas come out to eat and play. March to May is the mating period for pandas, so baby pandas are usually born between June and September. If you come between September and December, you will have a greater chance of seeing active baby pandas in the panda bases. It is best to visit during pandas' meal times or play times. Early in the morning from 8:30 to 10:30 is very suitable, when pandas come out to eat and play. March to May is the mating period for pandas, so baby pandas are usually born between June and September. If you come between September and December, you will have a greater chance of seeing active baby pandas in the panda bases. 4. Who can join a panda volunteer program? The age restriction for volunteers is 10 to 70 years old. Even though pandas may look harmless, they are large omnivores and should be given the same respect as bears. Parents must ensure that they prevent their children from coming into direct contact with the pandas. The cost for children of 10 years old and above is the same as the cost for adults. If your children are between 0–9 years old, you can still take them with you during the program. The children can not enter the room where the panda cage is. Your guide can help take care of them if you like. The age restriction for volunteers is 10 to 70 years old. Even though pandas may look harmless, they are large omnivores and should be given the same respect as bears. Parents must ensure that they prevent their children from coming into direct contact with the pandas. The cost for children of 10 years old and above is the same as the cost for adults. If your children are between 0–9 years old, you can still take them with you during the program. The children can not enter the room where the panda cage is. Your guide can help take care of them if you like.