ID: c0448d8ec9230e6
Title: Hiking Tours in China: Best Hikes & Outdoor Activities
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tour/china-hiking-tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Perhaps China is not so famous for hiking or other outdoor activities in travelers' minds. But in fact, the diverse landscapes and magnificent scenery of China will never disappoint hikers who love nature. China hiking tours offer energetic outdoorsy people exciting choices to get out of the cities and out of vehicles and crowds to discover the scenic side of China. The wild Great Wall, picturesque Guilin, amazing Zhangjiajie, the impressive Yellow Mountains, magnificent Tiger Leaping Gorge, and holy Jade Dragon Snow Mountain offer celebrated scenery and excellent hikes. We have roughly graded the hikes into five starred levels according to difficulty: 1-star hiking we have classed as short-distant hiking (walking tours) of no more than 5 km (3 miles) on well-paved or mostly well-surfaced paths with little or no ascent in a city or low-altitude area. 2-star hiking (easy half-day hiking) is estimated as 5–15 km (3–9 miles) with ascents and descents on paved steps and an altitude of no more than 2,000 m (6,560 ft). 3-star hiking describes moderate/long/challenging day treks of about 10–20 km (6–12 miles) with ascents that could be more than 500 m (1,500ft), high points that could be more than 3,000 m (10,000 ft) above sea level, and hiking on dirt roads or small forest paths. 4-star hiking we have graded as moderate/challenging multiday hiking of more than 10 km (6 miles) per day on average with possible ascents and descents on steep paths, possibly at altitudes between 3,000 and 5,000 m (10,000–16,000 ft). 5-star hiking describes challenging multiday trekking expeditions, requiring professional logistical support/equipment, usually with mountaineering and/or altitudes of over 5,000 m (16,400 ft). Perhaps China is not so famous for hiking or other outdoor activities in travelers' minds. But in fact, the diverse landscapes and magnificent scenery of China will never disappoint hikers who love nature. China hiking tours offer energetic outdoorsy people exciting choices to get out of the cities and out of vehicles and crowds to discover the scenic side of China. The wild Great Wall, picturesque Guilin, amazing Zhangjiajie, the impressive Yellow Mountains, magnificent Tiger Leaping Gorge, and holy Jade Dragon Snow Mountain offer celebrated scenery and excellent hikes. We have roughly graded the hikes into five starred levels according to difficulty: 1-star hiking we have classed as short-distant hiking (walking tours) of no more than 5 km (3 miles) on well-paved or mostly well-surfaced paths with little or no ascent in a city or low-altitude area. 2-star hiking (easy half-day hiking) is estimated as 5–15 km (3–9 miles) with ascents and descents on paved steps and an altitude of no more than 2,000 m (6,560 ft). 3-star hiking describes moderate/long/challenging day treks of about 10–20 km (6–12 miles) with ascents that could be more than 500 m (1,500ft), high points that could be more than 3,000 m (10,000 ft) above sea level, and hiking on dirt roads or small forest paths. 4-star hiking we have graded as moderate/challenging multiday hiking of more than 10 km (6 miles) per day on average with possible ascents and descents on steep paths, possibly at altitudes between 3,000 and 5,000 m (10,000–16,000 ft). 5-star hiking describes challenging multiday trekking expeditions, requiring professional logistical support/equipment, usually with mountaineering and/or altitudes of over 5,000 m (16,400 ft). We have roughly graded the hikes into five starred levels according to difficulty: 1-star hiking we have classed as short-distant hiking (walking tours) of no more than 5 km (3 miles) on well-paved or mostly well-surfaced paths with little or no ascent in a city or low-altitude area. 2-star hiking (easy half-day hiking) is estimated as 5–15 km (3–9 miles) with ascents and descents on paved steps and an altitude of no more than 2,000 m (6,560 ft). 3-star hiking describes moderate/long/challenging day treks of about 10–20 km (6–12 miles) with ascents that could be more than 500 m (1,500ft), high points that could be more than 3,000 m (10,000 ft) above sea level, and hiking on dirt roads or small forest paths. 4-star hiking we have graded as moderate/challenging multiday hiking of more than 10 km (6 miles) per day on average with possible ascents and descents on steep paths, possibly at altitudes between 3,000 and 5,000 m (10,000–16,000 ft). 5-star hiking describes challenging multiday trekking expeditions, requiring professional logistical support/equipment, usually with mountaineering and/or altitudes of over 5,000 m (16,400 ft). • 1-star hiking we have classed as short-distant hiking (walking tours) of no more than 5 km (3 miles) on well-paved or mostly well-surfaced paths with little or no ascent in a city or low-altitude area. • 2-star hiking (easy half-day hiking) is estimated as 5–15 km (3–9 miles) with ascents and descents on paved steps and an altitude of no more than 2,000 m (6,560 ft). • 3-star hiking describes moderate/long/challenging day treks of about 10–20 km (6–12 miles) with ascents that could be more than 500 m (1,500ft), high points that could be more than 3,000 m (10,000 ft) above sea level, and hiking on dirt roads or small forest paths. • 4-star hiking we have graded as moderate/challenging multiday hiking of more than 10 km (6 miles) per day on average with possible ascents and descents on steep paths, possibly at altitudes between 3,000 and 5,000 m (10,000–16,000 ft). • 5-star hiking describes challenging multiday trekking expeditions, requiring professional logistical support/equipment, usually with mountaineering and/or altitudes of over 5,000 m (16,400 ft). Our Best Great Wall Hiking Tours We have selected the less touristy and most magnificent sections of the Great Wall for our private hiking tours. You can walk at your own pace, giving you plenty of time to take great photos or just to feel the majesty of the wall at certain places. Our hiking itineraries can be customized, which means that your travel advisor can make the tour and hiking arrangements suit you uniquely. Being private, they can also be flexibly adjusted on the day. Hike the Picturesque Great Wall 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Beautiful watchtowers Winding ridgetop wall View more Conquer the Most Challenging Great Wall 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Explore the Top Great Wall Areas 3-Day Great Wall Hiking from Jiankou to Jinshanling Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Recommended Hiking Tours on Beautiful Mountains If you are a big fan of mountains, here are some hiking tours you might be interested in. From the famous mountains in the east to the magnificent gorges in the west, every tour could be an exceptional experience. Secrets of the Yangtze 3-Day Tiger Leaping Gorge and Stone Village Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 4-star Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking Naxi stone village View more Pilgrimage to Joseph Rock's Favorite Mountain 1-Day Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Essence of Zhangjiajie 4-Day Zhangjiajie Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star View more Exclusive Yellow Mountain Beauties 4 Days Trekking in the Yellow Mountains Hiking difficulty: 3-star The Western Grand Canyon sunsets and sunrises View more Great Mountain and Xi'an Highlights 4-Day Xi'an and Mt Hua Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star View more Walk in Fairy Tales of Autumn 5-Day Daocheng and Yading Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Tibet Hiking Tours Tibet is a paradise for hikers. We have selected the best trekking tours in Tibet for your reference. no matter whether you would like to just have a taste of the short trekkings near Lhasa or want to challenge yourself with a multi-day trekking for the amazing plateau scenery, we are happy to help you to plan a once-in-a-life Tibet trekking tour. A Physical and Cultural Adventure in Tibet 7-Day Tibet Tour including Trekking and Camping Hiking difficulty: 3-star Camping with a Tibetan nomads View More Pilgrim's Progress on the Path to the Sky 11-Day Tibet Tour with Everest Base Camp Trek Hiking difficulty: 4-star A 4-day trek to Mount Everest Base Camp View More Fulfill the Most Scenic Pilgrmage in Tibet 9-Day Tibet Tour with Lhasa and a Ganden–Samye Trek Hiking difficulty: 4-star A 4-day trek in great valleys View More Recommended Hiking Tours for Idyllic Countryside Here are some recommended hiking tours for travelers who want to enjoy the countryside scenery and get close to rural life in China. Real Interaction with Picturesque and Idyllic Guilin 5-Day Guilin Tour with Moderate Hiking Hiking difficulty: 2-star Terraced fields and Li River hiking View More Fall in Love with the Heavenly Palette of Colors 6-Day Jianshui and Yuanyang Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Terraced fields with water and villages View More Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo, and Guizhou Relaxation Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Countryside cycling and Rice terrace hiking View More Recommended Tours with Outdoor Activities Here are some suggested tours if you are also interested in other outdoor activities such as biking, kayaking, rafting, rock climbing, or caving. Dynamic Zhangjiajie 5-Day Dynamic Zhangjiajie Enjoy your own hiking and biking Shot at Instagram-worthy spots View More Indulge in Summer Fun in the Karst Landscape 5-Day Guilin and Yangshuo Tour Village adventure with an ATV Yulong River SUP View More Dynamic Dali 4-Day Dynamic Dali Tour Hike on the Cangshan mountains Bike along Erhai Lake View More No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us Our Best Great Wall Hiking Tours We have selected the less touristy and most magnificent sections of the Great Wall for our private hiking tours. You can walk at your own pace, giving you plenty of time to take great photos or just to feel the majesty of the wall at certain places. Our hiking itineraries can be customized, which means that your travel advisor can make the tour and hiking arrangements suit you uniquely. Being private, they can also be flexibly adjusted on the day. Hike the Picturesque Great Wall 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Beautiful watchtowers Winding ridgetop wall View more Hike the Picturesque Great Wall 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Beautiful watchtowers Winding ridgetop wall View more • Beautiful watchtowers • Winding ridgetop wall Conquer the Most Challenging Great Wall 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Conquer the Most Challenging Great Wall 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Explore the Top Great Wall Areas 3-Day Great Wall Hiking from Jiankou to Jinshanling Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Explore the Top Great Wall Areas 3-Day Great Wall Hiking from Jiankou to Jinshanling Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Recommended Hiking Tours on Beautiful Mountains If you are a big fan of mountains, here are some hiking tours you might be interested in. From the famous mountains in the east to the magnificent gorges in the west, every tour could be an exceptional experience. Secrets of the Yangtze 3-Day Tiger Leaping Gorge and Stone Village Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 4-star Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking Naxi stone village View more Secrets of the Yangtze 3-Day Tiger Leaping Gorge and Stone Village Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 4-star Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking Naxi stone village View more • Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking • Naxi stone village Pilgrimage to Joseph Rock's Favorite Mountain 1-Day Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Pilgrimage to Joseph Rock's Favorite Mountain 1-Day Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Hiking Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Essence of Zhangjiajie 4-Day Zhangjiajie Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star View more Essence of Zhangjiajie 4-Day Zhangjiajie Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star View more Exclusive Yellow Mountain Beauties 4 Days Trekking in the Yellow Mountains Hiking difficulty: 3-star The Western Grand Canyon sunsets and sunrises View more Exclusive Yellow Mountain Beauties 4 Days Trekking in the Yellow Mountains Hiking difficulty: 3-star The Western Grand Canyon sunsets and sunrises View more • The Western Grand Canyon • sunsets and sunrises Great Mountain and Xi'an Highlights 4-Day Xi'an and Mt Hua Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star View more Great Mountain and Xi'an Highlights 4-Day Xi'an and Mt Hua Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star View more Walk in Fairy Tales of Autumn 5-Day Daocheng and Yading Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Walk in Fairy Tales of Autumn 5-Day Daocheng and Yading Tour Hiking difficulty: 3-star View more Tibet is a paradise for hikers. We have selected the best trekking tours in Tibet for your reference. no matter whether you would like to just have a taste of the short trekkings near Lhasa or want to challenge yourself with a multi-day trekking for the amazing plateau scenery, we are happy to help you to plan a once-in-a-life Tibet trekking tour. A Physical and Cultural Adventure in Tibet 7-Day Tibet Tour including Trekking and Camping Hiking difficulty: 3-star Camping with a Tibetan nomads View More Pilgrim's Progress on the Path to the Sky 11-Day Tibet Tour with Everest Base Camp Trek Hiking difficulty: 4-star A 4-day trek to Mount Everest Base Camp View More Fulfill the Most Scenic Pilgrmage in Tibet 9-Day Tibet Tour with Lhasa and a Ganden–Samye Trek Hiking difficulty: 4-star A 4-day trek in great valleys View More A Physical and Cultural Adventure in Tibet 7-Day Tibet Tour including Trekking and Camping Hiking difficulty: 3-star Camping with a Tibetan nomads View More A Physical and Cultural Adventure in Tibet 7-Day Tibet Tour including Trekking and Camping Hiking difficulty: 3-star Camping with a Tibetan nomads View More • Hiking difficulty: 3-star • Camping with a Tibetan nomads Pilgrim's Progress on the Path to the Sky 11-Day Tibet Tour with Everest Base Camp Trek Hiking difficulty: 4-star A 4-day trek to Mount Everest Base Camp View More Pilgrim's Progress on the Path to the Sky 11-Day Tibet Tour with Everest Base Camp Trek Hiking difficulty: 4-star A 4-day trek to Mount Everest Base Camp View More • Hiking difficulty: 4-star • A 4-day trek to Mount Everest Base Camp Fulfill the Most Scenic Pilgrmage in Tibet 9-Day Tibet Tour with Lhasa and a Ganden–Samye Trek Hiking difficulty: 4-star A 4-day trek in great valleys View More Fulfill the Most Scenic Pilgrmage in Tibet 9-Day Tibet Tour with Lhasa and a Ganden–Samye Trek Hiking difficulty: 4-star A 4-day trek in great valleys View More • Hiking difficulty: 4-star • A 4-day trek in great valleys Recommended Hiking Tours for Idyllic Countryside Here are some recommended hiking tours for travelers who want to enjoy the countryside scenery and get close to rural life in China. Real Interaction with Picturesque and Idyllic Guilin 5-Day Guilin Tour with Moderate Hiking Hiking difficulty: 2-star Terraced fields and Li River hiking View More Fall in Love with the Heavenly Palette of Colors 6-Day Jianshui and Yuanyang Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Terraced fields with water and villages View More Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo, and Guizhou Relaxation Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Countryside cycling and Rice terrace hiking View More Real Interaction with Picturesque and Idyllic Guilin 5-Day Guilin Tour with Moderate Hiking Hiking difficulty: 2-star Terraced fields and Li River hiking View More Real Interaction with Picturesque and Idyllic Guilin 5-Day Guilin Tour with Moderate Hiking Hiking difficulty: 2-star Terraced fields and Li River hiking View More • Hiking difficulty: 2-star • Terraced fields and Li River hiking Fall in Love with the Heavenly Palette of Colors 6-Day Jianshui and Yuanyang Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Terraced fields with water and villages View More Fall in Love with the Heavenly Palette of Colors 6-Day Jianshui and Yuanyang Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Terraced fields with water and villages View More • Hiking difficulty: 2-star • Terraced fields with water and villages Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo, and Guizhou Relaxation Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Countryside cycling and Rice terrace hiking View More Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo, and Guizhou Relaxation Tour Hiking difficulty: 2-star Countryside cycling and Rice terrace hiking View More • Hiking difficulty: 2-star • Countryside cycling and Rice terrace hiking Recommended Tours with Outdoor Activities Here are some suggested tours if you are also interested in other outdoor activities such as biking, kayaking, rafting, rock climbing, or caving. Dynamic Zhangjiajie 5-Day Dynamic Zhangjiajie Enjoy your own hiking and biking Shot at Instagram-worthy spots View More Indulge in Summer Fun in the Karst Landscape 5-Day Guilin and Yangshuo Tour Village adventure with an ATV Yulong River SUP View More Dynamic Dali 4-Day Dynamic Dali Tour Hike on the Cangshan mountains Bike along Erhai Lake View More Dynamic Zhangjiajie 5-Day Dynamic Zhangjiajie Enjoy your own hiking and biking Shot at Instagram-worthy spots View More 5-Day Dynamic Zhangjiajie Enjoy your own hiking and biking Shot at Instagram-worthy spots View More • Enjoy your own hiking and biking • Shot at Instagram-worthy spots Indulge in Summer Fun in the Karst Landscape 5-Day Guilin and Yangshuo Tour Village adventure with an ATV Yulong River SUP View More Indulge in Summer Fun in the Karst Landscape 5-Day Guilin and Yangshuo Tour Village adventure with an ATV Yulong River SUP View More • Village adventure with an ATV • Yulong River SUP Dynamic Dali 4-Day Dynamic Dali Tour Hike on the Cangshan mountains Bike along Erhai Lake View More 4-Day Dynamic Dali Tour Hike on the Cangshan mountains Bike along Erhai Lake View More • Hike on the Cangshan mountains • Bike along Erhai Lake No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? 4 Common Questions Travelers Ask Us Expand All 1. What to pack Wear walking shoes and clothes suitable for outdoor activities, sunglasses, sun block and hat are necessary. 2. Best time to hike Best time to hiking in Guilin is from middle of April to October especially the autumn. Avoid Guilin's monsoon (March and April).Spring and autumn are the best time in Tiger Leaping Gorge, when the temperatures and humidity are lower. 3. What to see in Longji Terraced Fields? Watering the fields in Longji Terraced Fields starts every April, planting in June and harvest comes during late September. Golden terraced fields are fabulous during China's National Day holiday. Although we don't recommend visiting China during the period, yet it's the best time to see and photograph the countless yellow rice terraces. The rice stalks don't turn golden before National Day and is quickly cut after the holiday. 4. About the Li River hiking It's not open to travelers now, so we arrange the Meeting Dragon River hiking instead of the Li River hiking. Meeting Dragon River is one of the best areas to enjoy Guilin's Karst hills. 5. About the Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking is a rather difficult and serious hiking route in China. Get ready for a 7-hour hiking on the first day and 4-5 hours hiking on the second day. 4 Common Questions Travelers Ask Us Expand All 1. What to pack Wear walking shoes and clothes suitable for outdoor activities, sunglasses, sun block and hat are necessary. 2. Best time to hike Best time to hiking in Guilin is from middle of April to October especially the autumn. Avoid Guilin's monsoon (March and April).Spring and autumn are the best time in Tiger Leaping Gorge, when the temperatures and humidity are lower. 3. What to see in Longji Terraced Fields? Watering the fields in Longji Terraced Fields starts every April, planting in June and harvest comes during late September. Golden terraced fields are fabulous during China's National Day holiday. Although we don't recommend visiting China during the period, yet it's the best time to see and photograph the countless yellow rice terraces. The rice stalks don't turn golden before National Day and is quickly cut after the holiday. 4. About the Li River hiking It's not open to travelers now, so we arrange the Meeting Dragon River hiking instead of the Li River hiking. Meeting Dragon River is one of the best areas to enjoy Guilin's Karst hills. 5. About the Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking is a rather difficult and serious hiking route in China. Get ready for a 7-hour hiking on the first day and 4-5 hours hiking on the second day. 4 Common Questions Travelers Ask Us Expand All 1. What to pack Wear walking shoes and clothes suitable for outdoor activities, sunglasses, sun block and hat are necessary. 2. Best time to hike Best time to hiking in Guilin is from middle of April to October especially the autumn. Avoid Guilin's monsoon (March and April).Spring and autumn are the best time in Tiger Leaping Gorge, when the temperatures and humidity are lower. 3. What to see in Longji Terraced Fields? Watering the fields in Longji Terraced Fields starts every April, planting in June and harvest comes during late September. Golden terraced fields are fabulous during China's National Day holiday. Although we don't recommend visiting China during the period, yet it's the best time to see and photograph the countless yellow rice terraces. The rice stalks don't turn golden before National Day and is quickly cut after the holiday. 4. About the Li River hiking It's not open to travelers now, so we arrange the Meeting Dragon River hiking instead of the Li River hiking. Meeting Dragon River is one of the best areas to enjoy Guilin's Karst hills. 5. About the Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking is a rather difficult and serious hiking route in China. Get ready for a 7-hour hiking on the first day and 4-5 hours hiking on the second day. Wear walking shoes and clothes suitable for outdoor activities, sunglasses, sun block and hat are necessary. Wear walking shoes and clothes suitable for outdoor activities, sunglasses, sun block and hat are necessary. Best time to hiking in Guilin is from middle of April to October especially the autumn. Avoid Guilin's monsoon (March and April).Spring and autumn are the best time in Tiger Leaping Gorge, when the temperatures and humidity are lower. Best time to hiking in Guilin is from middle of April to October especially the autumn. Avoid Guilin's monsoon (March and April).Spring and autumn are the best time in Tiger Leaping Gorge, when the temperatures and humidity are lower. 3. What to see in Longji Terraced Fields? Watering the fields in Longji Terraced Fields starts every April, planting in June and harvest comes during late September. Golden terraced fields are fabulous during China's National Day holiday. Although we don't recommend visiting China during the period, yet it's the best time to see and photograph the countless yellow rice terraces. The rice stalks don't turn golden before National Day and is quickly cut after the holiday. Watering the fields in Longji Terraced Fields starts every April, planting in June and harvest comes during late September. Golden terraced fields are fabulous during China's National Day holiday. Although we don't recommend visiting China during the period, yet it's the best time to see and photograph the countless yellow rice terraces. The rice stalks don't turn golden before National Day and is quickly cut after the holiday. 4. About the Li River hiking It's not open to travelers now, so we arrange the Meeting Dragon River hiking instead of the Li River hiking. Meeting Dragon River is one of the best areas to enjoy Guilin's Karst hills. It's not open to travelers now, so we arrange the Meeting Dragon River hiking instead of the Li River hiking. Meeting Dragon River is one of the best areas to enjoy Guilin's Karst hills. 5. About the Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking is a rather difficult and serious hiking route in China. Get ready for a 7-hour hiking on the first day and 4-5 hours hiking on the second day. Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking is a rather difficult and serious hiking route in China. Get ready for a 7-hour hiking on the first day and 4-5 hours hiking on the second day.