ID: 5b50223d4cf99599
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Changsha and Zhangjiajie
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-changsha-and-zhangjiajie.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

If you want to get to Zhangjiajie, Changsha could be a very useful transportation hub. You could visit Changsha for its local culture and delicious food, or take advantage of Changsha's extensive network of flights and high-speed trains that provide more options for connecting to other cities than nearby Zhangjiajie has. This article is to help you plan a Changsha and Zhangjiajie tour, covering transfers between both cities, itineraries, best times to go, and costs. • 1. How Many Days to Spend • 2. How to Get to • 3. Best Times to Visit • 4. Costs for a Trip How Many Days to Spend in Changsha and Zhangjiajie A total of 3–5 days would allow you to have an immersive experience, spending enough time to appreciate both the cultural richness of Changsha and the natural wonders of Zhangjiajie. However, if you have more time, you could certainly extend your stay to explore Zhangjiajie and Changsha more. Changsha, as the capital city of Hunan province, offers a glimpse into the rich Hunanese culture, history, and distinctive spicy snacks. You could spend 1–2 days exploring its main attractions. Zhangjiajie is renowned for its stunning natural landscapes, including the UNESCO-listed Wulingyuan Scenic Area, which inspired the floating mountains in the movie Avatar. To explore its essential attractions, you should plan to spend at least 2–3 days there. Things to Do in Changsha and Zhangjiajie In Changsha, if you want to explore the city's cultural gems, the millennium-old Yuelu Academy and the Hunan Museum are recommended and you need a day to explore them. If you want to experience Changsha's local life, you could choose to cruise or enjoy walking alongside the Xiangjiang River, feeling the history and culture come alive as you pass by. Additionally, explore the lively pedestrian avenues and bustling markets, where you could savor authentic local cuisine. Pozi Street and Hangxing Road are recommended. With just half a day and an evening to spare, this arrangement would be ideal. In Zhangjiajie, you could immerse yourself in a fantastic realm highlighted by Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, Tianmen Mountain National Forest Park, and Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon. If you're short on time, the Wulingyuan area is highly recommended as your first choice. However, if you have 3–4 days to spare, you could fully explore all the classic attractions in these areas. How to Get to Changsha and Zhangjiajie Although Zhangjiajie has an airport with some direct flights from Xi'an, Shanghai, Chengdu, and Beijing, the frequency of these flights is limited. If you need to transfer to other cities from Zhangjiajie or take a bullet train to Zhangjiajie, you would need to transfer at Changsha Railway Station. It is recommended to have a layover in Changsha for a rest. With many more flight options available and frequent high-speed trains to and from Changsha, you could flexibly arrange your itinerary and reduce fatigue from long journeys. Additionally, taking a high-speed train from Changsha to Zhangjiajie is very convenient. There are many departures and the journey takes 2½ to 3½ hours. How to Plan a Changsha and Zhangjiajie Itinerary You could spend a night experiencing the local life and cuisine or a day delving into the culture and history of Changsha for some relaxation. Afterward, transfer to Zhangjiajie where you could dedicate 2–3 days exploring the wonderland that inspired the planet in Avatar. This itinerary would help you efficiently arrange a typically-enjoyed visit to Changsha and Zhangjiajie. With three full days in Zhangjiajie, you would see the area's classic scenery, while, using a transition day, you could also experience Changsha's local life and learn about its history. Day 1: Arrive in Changsha If you arrive in Changsha in the afternoon, you could have a night tour with an exploration of the food streets and a Xiangjiang River cruise. If you are interested in seeing the best-preserved wet corpse of Xin Zhui and historical Yuelu Academy, you would need to have a day spare. Transfer to Zhangjiajie by bullet train in the evening or the following morning, depending on your choice of activities in Changsha. Day 2: Zhangjiajie National Forest Park We recommend starting with Tianzi Mountain and Yuanjiajie in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. Marvel at the unique sandstone pillars, sheer cliffs, and dense forests. There lies the surreal beauty of Avatar Hallelujah Mountain, named after floating rocks in the film Avatar. See an array of fantastical rock formations. Although this area has shuttle buses, visiting the attractions still requires a lot of walking. After the tour, stay overnight at a hotel within Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Day 3: Baofeng Lake and Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon You could visit Baofeng Lake and Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon to experience the adventure of walking on Zhangjiajie Glass Bridge. Peer through its transparent floor to behold the valley floor 300 meters (1,000 feet below). Take in the majesty of the surrounding canyon. There, you could also try the thrilling experience of bungee jumping. After the tour, return to your hotel in Wulingyuan. Day 4: Tianmen Mountain National Forest Park On the last day, you would explore Tianmen Mountain National Forest Park. It has the world's highest natural water-eroded cave. For the adventurous, stroll along the precipitous pathways of the Guigu Valley Trail. Traverse the landscape via cable car to ascend from the city, soaking up panoramic views of the urban skyline, pastoral scenery, and winding mountain roads. Day 5: Zhangjiajie City Departure Descend to downtown Zhangjiajie and catch your onward flight or stay overnight (we would arrange for your luggage to be transported from your hotel in Wulingyuan to Zhangjiajie city in the morning). An option if you have less than 3 days in Zhangjiajie: If you only have 2½ days in Zhangjiajie, you could spend half a day touring Huanglong Cave, known for its spectacular karst formations. On the second day, head to Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. On the final day, visit Tianmen Mountain National Forest Park and walk on the glass-bottomed pathways, which provide dizzying views of the deep chasm below. Conclude your trip by taking the cable car back to the city. If you have 1–2 days, we recommend that you focus on Tianzi Mountain and Avatar Hallelujah Mountain in Wulingyuan Area of Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. Best Times to Visit Changsha and Zhangjiajie The best time to visit Changsha and Zhangjiajie is from September to November when the temperature is 62.6-82.4°F (17-28℃)and drier weather offers a better chance of awesome views. In Zhangjiajie, where misty weather is common, it's best to explore during periods when clear weather is more prevalent. During this autumn periods, there are fewer crowds compared to the high season (July and August or the Chinese holidays), and the weather is pleasant 68-82°F (20-28°C). Both cities are very crowded, especially during the summer vacation (July and August), the Labor Day holiday (May 1st–3rd) and the National Day holiday (October 1st–7th). Try to book as early as possible if you happen to visit during these periods. July and August are in the rainy season with poor visibility sometimes being a problem. From early November to the end of March is the offseason. In winter, icy conditions could make mountain roads slippery. If you cannot visit during the best times, it is advisable to allocate an extra day when planning your trip to Zhangjiajie. This extra day could help accommodate weather changes, allowing for alternative activities, or provide you with time to wait for better weather. Costs for a Trip to Changsha and Zhangjiajie The cost of a private tour in Changsha and Zhangjiajie is about $200 per person per day (based on at least two people), including domestic flights/train journeys from Changsha to Zhangjiajie, 4-star hotels, attractions, tour guides, and private transfers. We hope our suggestions help you to design your journey. If you have other ideas in mind, our customizable private tours provide you with many options for balancing price and quality perfectly. You would obtain relatively high-quality services, experiences, and privacy within a most reasonable price range in Changsha/Zhangjiajie. Feel free to contact us if you need help further planning a trip to Zhangjiajie and Changsha.