ID: 45f1ca036e4b5bd7
Title: The Silk Road Travel Guide: Explore China Ancient Culture
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/silkroad/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The Silk Road trade route was recognized about 2,100 years ago in China for its trade and travel from China's Han Empire to Central Asia and Europe, and it revolutionized the world until it declined during the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644). Our Silk Road travel guide offers best places to visit, top things to do, how to plan your Silk Road trip and more travel tips. Content Preview Top Places to Visit How to Plan a Silk Road Trip Top Private Silk Road Tours 8 FAQs to Understand the Silk Road Top Places to Visit on Silk Road Xi'an Dunhuang Zhangye Urumqi Kashgar Turpan Find out more Silk Road Destinations with Top Things to Do How to Plan a Trip to Silk Road 7 Things You Need to Know Best Times to Visit the Silk Road How Long to Spend on the Silk Road Top Private Silk Road Tours Explore the ancient Silk Road's history and culture with our curated itineraries, offering a mix of quick tours and immersive experiences. Our team of advisors can customize these itineraries according to your preferences, ensuring you enjoy a memorable travel experience. 12-Day Classic Silk Road Tour from Xian to Kashgar Most popular choice for a bucket list trip Marvelous landscapes and the extraordinary culture View More 5-Day Dunhuang In-depth Private Tour along the Silk Road Grasp the opportunity to see the Mogao Caves Paint your exclusive mural View More 6-Day Silk Road Photography Tour in Zhangye and Dunhuang Explore the Rainbow Mountains Admire the Valuable Cultural Heritage View More 6-Day Silk Road Tour with Gannan Get A True Taste of Tibetan Culture Outside Tibet Enjoy the Breathtaking Views of Nuoergai Grand Prairie View More 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour Admire the splendid golden euphrates poplar forests Capture spectacular views of wild china View More 10-Day Ethnic Minority and Religious Exploration Witness the wonder of buddhist art Visit the biggest Tibetan Monastery in Gansu Province View More 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the Silk Road Highlights View More 21-Day China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour The best choice for the retirees The most efficient and cost-saving destination connection plan View More No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us 8 FAQs to Understand the Silk Road 1. What Was China's Silk Road? The Silk Road was an ancient trade and communication route across the Eurasian continent, formally recognized in China during the reign of Emperor Wu (157–87 BC) of the Han Dynasty. It linked China with many regions of the Old World in commerce between 119 BC and around 1400 AD. In fact, the Silk Road can be divided into the "overland Silk Roads" and the "Maritime Silk Road". Now, we usually refer to the northern overland Silk Road as the Silk Road in China. 2. Why Is It Called the Silk Road? China is the "hometown of silk", and silk was the most representative of the goods exported by China on the Silk Road. At the end of the 19th century, German geographer and traveler Ferdinand von Richthofen called the Silk Road routes die Seidenstrasse ('the Silk Road') or Seidenstrassen ('silk roads') in his book 'China'. The term was quickly accepted by academics and the public, and "Silk Road" was formally accepted as a proper noun. 3. Where Did the Silk Road Start and End? In 119 BC, the Silk Road started from Chang'an (now called Xi'an), China's ancient capital, which was moved further east (and with it the Silk Road's start) to Luoyang during the Later Han Dynasty (25–220 AD). The Silk Road ended in Rome. 4. Which Countries Did the Silk Road Go through? Starting from ancient China, the northern Silk Road bifurcated through the five Central Asian countries (the Stans), and continued through Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, and Turkey, then to Greece and Italy across the Mediterranean Sea. The Silk Road was not a single thoroughfare. The main northern route went from Xi'an/Luoyang through the Gansu Corridor to Dunhuang with two or three trails crossing the desert to Kashgar, then across Central Asia to Europe. The southwestern Silk Road route (the Tea Horse Road) went from Yunnan and Sichuan through Tibet to India, and the Maritime Silk Road went via sea/ocean via SE Asia and India to the Middle East, Africa, and Europe. 5. Why Was the Silk Road Important? The Silk Road promoted trade and commerce and cultural exchanges between European, African, and Asian countries. It generated the first upsurge of exchanges between China and the West. Trade and travel between East and West caused revolutionary changes in everything from culture, religion, and technology to the emergence of huge empires and the disappearance of many small tribes, kingdoms, and empires. The inventions of paper and gunpowder in China were so powerful that when the technology reached Europe, it enabled the Renaissance, the Protestant Reformation, and the scientific and industrial revolutions that transformed the world. Paper enabled rapid publication, and gunpowder weapons changed warfare and enabled the destruction of older empires and the emergence of new nations. Plagues spread and destroyed half the populations of large regions of Eurasia and new crops and technologies allowed the population in Eurasia to grow rapidly. The Mongol invasions on the Silk Road routes imprinted Mongol ethnicity and language from Xinjiang to Eastern Europe. Two of China's major religions, Buddhism and Islam, were introduced mainly via the Silk Road. 6. What Was Traded on the Silk Road? The Han Empire initially wanted big central Asian horses for their cavalry. Initially, they mainly traded silk, but later paper and porcelain were also exported in exchange for precious metals, glassware, woolen articles, and other products all the way from Europe and Egypt. 7. When Did the Silk Road Come to an End? The Silk Road trade continued over a roughly 1,500-year period. Trade grew and reached a height when the Mongols had control of Eurasia from China's Yuan Empire (1279–1368) to Eastern Europe. The fall of the Yuan Empire and increased Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) isolationism, the growth of silk production in Europe and elsewhere, and the growth of maritime trade effectively ended Silk Road trading in the 1400s. 8. Is the Silk Road Still Used Today? Into the historical context of the Silk Road, a new Silk Road is coming into being. In 2013, China launched the Belt and Road (the Silk Road Economic Belt and 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road) Initiative (BRI). It focuses on the goal of promoting mutual development and prosperity. New trans-Asia transportation infrastructure: Substantial progress has already been made. The first freight trains from Europe to China began running in 2011 and have cut transit time from Germany to China from 50 days by sea to 18 days. In 2018, a major 5,400-kilometer highway to St. Petersburg from the Yellow Sea was opened that allows vehicles to travel the distance in 10 days. This is a new travel option for economical tourism and sightseeing along Silk Road places. The Silk Road has become a popular route for tourism. In Xinjiang and along the entire Silk Road from Xi'an to Kashgar and Altay in Xinjiang to Greece and Albania, Silk Road tourism is booming. Multi-country trips tracing the Silk Road route are becoming popular among both Chinese and Westerners. The Silk Road trade route was recognized about 2,100 years ago in China for its trade and travel from China's Han Empire to Central Asia and Europe, and it revolutionized the world until it declined during the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644). Our Silk Road travel guide offers best places to visit, top things to do, how to plan your Silk Road trip and more travel tips. • Top Places to Visit • How to Plan a Silk Road Trip • Top Private Silk Road Tours • 8 FAQs to Understand the Silk Road Top Places to Visit on Silk Road Xi'an Dunhuang Zhangye Urumqi Kashgar Turpan Find out more Silk Road Destinations with Top Things to Do How to Plan a Trip to Silk Road 7 Things You Need to Know Best Times to Visit the Silk Road How Long to Spend on the Silk Road 7 Things You Need to Know Best Times to Visit the Silk Road How Long to Spend on the Silk Road Top Private Silk Road Tours Explore the ancient Silk Road's history and culture with our curated itineraries, offering a mix of quick tours and immersive experiences. Our team of advisors can customize these itineraries according to your preferences, ensuring you enjoy a memorable travel experience. 12-Day Classic Silk Road Tour from Xian to Kashgar Most popular choice for a bucket list trip Marvelous landscapes and the extraordinary culture View More 5-Day Dunhuang In-depth Private Tour along the Silk Road Grasp the opportunity to see the Mogao Caves Paint your exclusive mural View More 6-Day Silk Road Photography Tour in Zhangye and Dunhuang Explore the Rainbow Mountains Admire the Valuable Cultural Heritage View More 6-Day Silk Road Tour with Gannan Get A True Taste of Tibetan Culture Outside Tibet Enjoy the Breathtaking Views of Nuoergai Grand Prairie View More 12-Day Classic Silk Road Tour from Xian to Kashgar Most popular choice for a bucket list trip Marvelous landscapes and the extraordinary culture View More 12-Day Classic Silk Road Tour from Xian to Kashgar Most popular choice for a bucket list trip Marvelous landscapes and the extraordinary culture View More • Most popular choice for a bucket list trip • Marvelous landscapes and the extraordinary culture 5-Day Dunhuang In-depth Private Tour along the Silk Road Grasp the opportunity to see the Mogao Caves Paint your exclusive mural View More 5-Day Dunhuang In-depth Private Tour along the Silk Road Grasp the opportunity to see the Mogao Caves Paint your exclusive mural View More • Grasp the opportunity to see the Mogao Caves • Paint your exclusive mural 6-Day Silk Road Photography Tour in Zhangye and Dunhuang Explore the Rainbow Mountains Admire the Valuable Cultural Heritage View More 6-Day Silk Road Photography Tour in Zhangye and Dunhuang Explore the Rainbow Mountains Admire the Valuable Cultural Heritage View More • Explore the Rainbow Mountains • Admire the Valuable Cultural Heritage 6-Day Silk Road Tour with Gannan Get A True Taste of Tibetan Culture Outside Tibet Enjoy the Breathtaking Views of Nuoergai Grand Prairie View More 6-Day Silk Road Tour with Gannan Get A True Taste of Tibetan Culture Outside Tibet Enjoy the Breathtaking Views of Nuoergai Grand Prairie View More • Get A True Taste of Tibetan Culture Outside Tibet • Enjoy the Breathtaking Views of Nuoergai Grand Prairie 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour Admire the splendid golden euphrates poplar forests Capture spectacular views of wild china View More 10-Day Ethnic Minority and Religious Exploration Witness the wonder of buddhist art Visit the biggest Tibetan Monastery in Gansu Province View More 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the Silk Road Highlights View More 21-Day China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour The best choice for the retirees The most efficient and cost-saving destination connection plan View More 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour Admire the splendid golden euphrates poplar forests Capture spectacular views of wild china View More 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour Admire the splendid golden euphrates poplar forests Capture spectacular views of wild china View More • Admire the splendid golden euphrates poplar forests • Capture spectacular views of wild china 10-Day Ethnic Minority and Religious Exploration Witness the wonder of buddhist art Visit the biggest Tibetan Monastery in Gansu Province View More 10-Day Ethnic Minority and Religious Exploration Witness the wonder of buddhist art Visit the biggest Tibetan Monastery in Gansu Province View More • Witness the wonder of buddhist art • Visit the biggest Tibetan Monastery in Gansu Province 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the Silk Road Highlights View More 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the Silk Road Highlights View More • The best choice for first-timers • Discover the Silk Road Highlights 21-Day China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour The best choice for the retirees The most efficient and cost-saving destination connection plan View More 21-Day China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour The best choice for the retirees The most efficient and cost-saving destination connection plan View More • The best choice for the retirees • The most efficient and cost-saving destination connection plan No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? 8 FAQs to Understand the Silk Road 1. What Was China's Silk Road? The Silk Road was an ancient trade and communication route across the Eurasian continent, formally recognized in China during the reign of Emperor Wu (157–87 BC) of the Han Dynasty. It linked China with many regions of the Old World in commerce between 119 BC and around 1400 AD. In fact, the Silk Road can be divided into the "overland Silk Roads" and the "Maritime Silk Road". Now, we usually refer to the northern overland Silk Road as the Silk Road in China. 2. Why Is It Called the Silk Road? China is the "hometown of silk", and silk was the most representative of the goods exported by China on the Silk Road. At the end of the 19th century, German geographer and traveler Ferdinand von Richthofen called the Silk Road routes die Seidenstrasse ('the Silk Road') or Seidenstrassen ('silk roads') in his book 'China'. The term was quickly accepted by academics and the public, and "Silk Road" was formally accepted as a proper noun. 3. Where Did the Silk Road Start and End? In 119 BC, the Silk Road started from Chang'an (now called Xi'an), China's ancient capital, which was moved further east (and with it the Silk Road's start) to Luoyang during the Later Han Dynasty (25–220 AD). The Silk Road ended in Rome. 4. Which Countries Did the Silk Road Go through? Starting from ancient China, the northern Silk Road bifurcated through the five Central Asian countries (the Stans), and continued through Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, and Turkey, then to Greece and Italy across the Mediterranean Sea. The Silk Road was not a single thoroughfare. The main northern route went from Xi'an/Luoyang through the Gansu Corridor to Dunhuang with two or three trails crossing the desert to Kashgar, then across Central Asia to Europe. The southwestern Silk Road route (the Tea Horse Road) went from Yunnan and Sichuan through Tibet to India, and the Maritime Silk Road went via sea/ocean via SE Asia and India to the Middle East, Africa, and Europe. 5. Why Was the Silk Road Important? The Silk Road promoted trade and commerce and cultural exchanges between European, African, and Asian countries. It generated the first upsurge of exchanges between China and the West. Trade and travel between East and West caused revolutionary changes in everything from culture, religion, and technology to the emergence of huge empires and the disappearance of many small tribes, kingdoms, and empires. The inventions of paper and gunpowder in China were so powerful that when the technology reached Europe, it enabled the Renaissance, the Protestant Reformation, and the scientific and industrial revolutions that transformed the world. Paper enabled rapid publication, and gunpowder weapons changed warfare and enabled the destruction of older empires and the emergence of new nations. Plagues spread and destroyed half the populations of large regions of Eurasia and new crops and technologies allowed the population in Eurasia to grow rapidly. The Mongol invasions on the Silk Road routes imprinted Mongol ethnicity and language from Xinjiang to Eastern Europe. Two of China's major religions, Buddhism and Islam, were introduced mainly via the Silk Road. 6. What Was Traded on the Silk Road? The Han Empire initially wanted big central Asian horses for their cavalry. Initially, they mainly traded silk, but later paper and porcelain were also exported in exchange for precious metals, glassware, woolen articles, and other products all the way from Europe and Egypt. 7. When Did the Silk Road Come to an End? The Silk Road trade continued over a roughly 1,500-year period. Trade grew and reached a height when the Mongols had control of Eurasia from China's Yuan Empire (1279–1368) to Eastern Europe. The fall of the Yuan Empire and increased Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) isolationism, the growth of silk production in Europe and elsewhere, and the growth of maritime trade effectively ended Silk Road trading in the 1400s. 8. Is the Silk Road Still Used Today? Into the historical context of the Silk Road, a new Silk Road is coming into being. In 2013, China launched the Belt and Road (the Silk Road Economic Belt and 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road) Initiative (BRI). It focuses on the goal of promoting mutual development and prosperity. New trans-Asia transportation infrastructure: Substantial progress has already been made. The first freight trains from Europe to China began running in 2011 and have cut transit time from Germany to China from 50 days by sea to 18 days. In 2018, a major 5,400-kilometer highway to St. Petersburg from the Yellow Sea was opened that allows vehicles to travel the distance in 10 days. This is a new travel option for economical tourism and sightseeing along Silk Road places. The Silk Road has become a popular route for tourism. In Xinjiang and along the entire Silk Road from Xi'an to Kashgar and Altay in Xinjiang to Greece and Albania, Silk Road tourism is booming. Multi-country trips tracing the Silk Road route are becoming popular among both Chinese and Westerners. 1. What Was China's Silk Road? The Silk Road was an ancient trade and communication route across the Eurasian continent, formally recognized in China during the reign of Emperor Wu (157–87 BC) of the Han Dynasty. It linked China with many regions of the Old World in commerce between 119 BC and around 1400 AD. In fact, the Silk Road can be divided into the "overland Silk Roads" and the "Maritime Silk Road". Now, we usually refer to the northern overland Silk Road as the Silk Road in China. The Silk Road was an ancient trade and communication route across the Eurasian continent, formally recognized in China during the reign of Emperor Wu (157–87 BC) of the Han Dynasty. It linked China with many regions of the Old World in commerce between 119 BC and around 1400 AD. In fact, the Silk Road can be divided into the "overland Silk Roads" and the "Maritime Silk Road". Now, we usually refer to the northern overland Silk Road as the Silk Road in China. 2. Why Is It Called the Silk Road? China is the "hometown of silk", and silk was the most representative of the goods exported by China on the Silk Road. At the end of the 19th century, German geographer and traveler Ferdinand von Richthofen called the Silk Road routes die Seidenstrasse ('the Silk Road') or Seidenstrassen ('silk roads') in his book 'China'. The term was quickly accepted by academics and the public, and "Silk Road" was formally accepted as a proper noun. China is the "hometown of silk", and silk was the most representative of the goods exported by China on the Silk Road. At the end of the 19th century, German geographer and traveler Ferdinand von Richthofen called the Silk Road routes die Seidenstrasse ('the Silk Road') or Seidenstrassen ('silk roads') in his book 'China'. The term was quickly accepted by academics and the public, and "Silk Road" was formally accepted as a proper noun. 3. Where Did the Silk Road Start and End? In 119 BC, the Silk Road started from Chang'an (now called Xi'an), China's ancient capital, which was moved further east (and with it the Silk Road's start) to Luoyang during the Later Han Dynasty (25–220 AD). The Silk Road ended in Rome. In 119 BC, the Silk Road started from Chang'an (now called Xi'an), China's ancient capital, which was moved further east (and with it the Silk Road's start) to Luoyang during the Later Han Dynasty (25–220 AD). The Silk Road ended in Rome. 4. Which Countries Did the Silk Road Go through? Starting from ancient China, the northern Silk Road bifurcated through the five Central Asian countries (the Stans), and continued through Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, and Turkey, then to Greece and Italy across the Mediterranean Sea. The Silk Road was not a single thoroughfare. The main northern route went from Xi'an/Luoyang through the Gansu Corridor to Dunhuang with two or three trails crossing the desert to Kashgar, then across Central Asia to Europe. The southwestern Silk Road route (the Tea Horse Road) went from Yunnan and Sichuan through Tibet to India, and the Maritime Silk Road went via sea/ocean via SE Asia and India to the Middle East, Africa, and Europe. Starting from ancient China, the northern Silk Road bifurcated through the five Central Asian countries (the Stans), and continued through Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, and Turkey, then to Greece and Italy across the Mediterranean Sea. The Silk Road was not a single thoroughfare. The main northern route went from Xi'an/Luoyang through the Gansu Corridor to Dunhuang with two or three trails crossing the desert to Kashgar, then across Central Asia to Europe. The southwestern Silk Road route (the Tea Horse Road) went from Yunnan and Sichuan through Tibet to India, and the Maritime Silk Road went via sea/ocean via SE Asia and India to the Middle East, Africa, and Europe. 5. Why Was the Silk Road Important? The Silk Road promoted trade and commerce and cultural exchanges between European, African, and Asian countries. It generated the first upsurge of exchanges between China and the West. Trade and travel between East and West caused revolutionary changes in everything from culture, religion, and technology to the emergence of huge empires and the disappearance of many small tribes, kingdoms, and empires. The inventions of paper and gunpowder in China were so powerful that when the technology reached Europe, it enabled the Renaissance, the Protestant Reformation, and the scientific and industrial revolutions that transformed the world. Paper enabled rapid publication, and gunpowder weapons changed warfare and enabled the destruction of older empires and the emergence of new nations. Plagues spread and destroyed half the populations of large regions of Eurasia and new crops and technologies allowed the population in Eurasia to grow rapidly. The Mongol invasions on the Silk Road routes imprinted Mongol ethnicity and language from Xinjiang to Eastern Europe. Two of China's major religions, Buddhism and Islam, were introduced mainly via the Silk Road. The Silk Road promoted trade and commerce and cultural exchanges between European, African, and Asian countries. It generated the first upsurge of exchanges between China and the West. Trade and travel between East and West caused revolutionary changes in everything from culture, religion, and technology to the emergence of huge empires and the disappearance of many small tribes, kingdoms, and empires. The inventions of paper and gunpowder in China were so powerful that when the technology reached Europe, it enabled the Renaissance, the Protestant Reformation, and the scientific and industrial revolutions that transformed the world. Paper enabled rapid publication, and gunpowder weapons changed warfare and enabled the destruction of older empires and the emergence of new nations. Plagues spread and destroyed half the populations of large regions of Eurasia and new crops and technologies allowed the population in Eurasia to grow rapidly. The Mongol invasions on the Silk Road routes imprinted Mongol ethnicity and language from Xinjiang to Eastern Europe. Two of China's major religions, Buddhism and Islam, were introduced mainly via the Silk Road. 6. What Was Traded on the Silk Road? The Han Empire initially wanted big central Asian horses for their cavalry. Initially, they mainly traded silk, but later paper and porcelain were also exported in exchange for precious metals, glassware, woolen articles, and other products all the way from Europe and Egypt. The Han Empire initially wanted big central Asian horses for their cavalry. Initially, they mainly traded silk, but later paper and porcelain were also exported in exchange for precious metals, glassware, woolen articles, and other products all the way from Europe and Egypt. 7. When Did the Silk Road Come to an End? The Silk Road trade continued over a roughly 1,500-year period. Trade grew and reached a height when the Mongols had control of Eurasia from China's Yuan Empire (1279–1368) to Eastern Europe. The fall of the Yuan Empire and increased Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) isolationism, the growth of silk production in Europe and elsewhere, and the growth of maritime trade effectively ended Silk Road trading in the 1400s. The Silk Road trade continued over a roughly 1,500-year period. Trade grew and reached a height when the Mongols had control of Eurasia from China's Yuan Empire (1279–1368) to Eastern Europe. The fall of the Yuan Empire and increased Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) isolationism, the growth of silk production in Europe and elsewhere, and the growth of maritime trade effectively ended Silk Road trading in the 1400s. 8. Is the Silk Road Still Used Today? Into the historical context of the Silk Road, a new Silk Road is coming into being. In 2013, China launched the Belt and Road (the Silk Road Economic Belt and 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road) Initiative (BRI). It focuses on the goal of promoting mutual development and prosperity. New trans-Asia transportation infrastructure: Substantial progress has already been made. The first freight trains from Europe to China began running in 2011 and have cut transit time from Germany to China from 50 days by sea to 18 days. In 2018, a major 5,400-kilometer highway to St. Petersburg from the Yellow Sea was opened that allows vehicles to travel the distance in 10 days. This is a new travel option for economical tourism and sightseeing along Silk Road places. The Silk Road has become a popular route for tourism. In Xinjiang and along the entire Silk Road from Xi'an to Kashgar and Altay in Xinjiang to Greece and Albania, Silk Road tourism is booming. Multi-country trips tracing the Silk Road route are becoming popular among both Chinese and Westerners. Into the historical context of the Silk Road, a new Silk Road is coming into being. In 2013, China launched the Belt and Road (the Silk Road Economic Belt and 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road) Initiative (BRI). It focuses on the goal of promoting mutual development and prosperity. New trans-Asia transportation infrastructure: Substantial progress has already been made. The first freight trains from Europe to China began running in 2011 and have cut transit time from Germany to China from 50 days by sea to 18 days. In 2018, a major 5,400-kilometer highway to St. Petersburg from the Yellow Sea was opened that allows vehicles to travel the distance in 10 days. This is a new travel option for economical tourism and sightseeing along Silk Road places. The Silk Road has become a popular route for tourism. In Xinjiang and along the entire Silk Road from Xi'an to Kashgar and Altay in Xinjiang to Greece and Albania, Silk Road tourism is booming. Multi-country trips tracing the Silk Road route are becoming popular among both Chinese and Westerners.