ID: 147a8d120536c56d
Title: Best Dunhuang Itineraries and Side Trips
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/dunhuang/itinerary-ideas.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Dunhuang features the "Eastern Louvre" — the Mogao Caves — as well as enchanting desert landscapes and exotic charm. How many days should you spend exploring Dunhuang and its surroundings? See our guidance on this and our top Dunhuang itineraries for your inspiration below. • How Many Days to Spend in Dunhuang • Itinerary 1: 5-Day Dunhuang In-Depth Culture Tour • Itinerary 2: 6-Day Dunhuang and Zhangye Tour • Itinerary 3: 12-Day China Silk Road Tour with Dunhuang How Many Days to Spend in Dunhuang In general, we recommend 3–5 days for exploring Dunhuang. A 3-day Dunhuang trip allows you to visit almost all of Dunhuang's highlights. Another 2 days would allow a more relaxed pace or more exploration. An extended itinerary of 5 to 12 days allows for more flexibility and a richer experience including the area around Dunhuang. You could extend your itinerary by visiting nearby Silk Road destinations, such as Zhangye, Jiayuguan, and Turpan, or explore further afield along China's great Silk Road. Below are our top Dunhuang itineraries for your inspiration. Echoing Sand Mountain and Crescent Moon Spring Itinerary 1: 5-Day Dunhuang In-Depth Culture Tour (Most Chosen) This optimally-designed tour is the most popular itinerary for a first visit to Dunhuang, especially for culture fans. It offers an in-depth experience of the history and culture of Dunhuang and the Mogao Caves, as well as showcasing fascinating desert scenery and Yadan landforms. • Day 1: Dunhuang arrival and Shazhou Night Market • Day 2: The Mogao Caves and Dunhuang Museum • Day 3: A mural experience, Echoing Sand Mountain, and Crescent Moon Spring • Day 4: The Han Dynasty Great Wall and Yadan landforms (Devil City) • Day 5: Dunhuang departure The site of the Mogao Caves tops travelers' bucket lists for its enchanting murals. Photography inside the Mogao Caves is prohibited. However, Dunhuang Museum offers photo opportunities with intricately reproduced murals and statues in its replica caves. Early booking at least 5 days in advance is necessary due to the limited number of daily visitors, especially in the peak season from July to October. To deeply understand the caves, you would learn about the mystery of the murals in the Mogao Caves at the Dunhuang Research Academy and make your own mural. This is a favorite experience for families with kids. During the second leg of the trip, you would have a fun camels ride around Echoing Sand Mountain and enjoy a stunning desert sunset. Alternatively, we could adjust your schedule to catch the desert sunrise if desired. For a serene desert setting, consider our exclusive desert camp near Echoing Sand Mountain, which is a secluded spot with minimal tourists. Take pleasure in a desert sunset dinner, which is ideal for couples seeking romantic moments. Echo Sand Mountain dinner In the last days of this itinerary, visit the cultural relics of Yumen Pass and the Great Wall of the Han Dynasty to learn about Dunhuang's significance as an ancient military fortress. Explore Yadan National Geopark which is renowned for its eerie night sounds and lifelike rock formations resembling animals. The regular tour involves taking a shuttle bus into Yadan National Geopark, fixed parking spots, crowds, and a limited visiting time. If you prefer more exclusive experiences, we could help to arrange a flexible private jeep tour instead. If you're interested in this itinerary, check out the tour page. Or feel free to reach out to us with your ideas. Itinerary 2: 6-Day Dunhuang and Zhangye Tour (Good for Photographers) If you like photography, you could extend your Dunhuang trip to nearby Zhangye, which is famous for its colorful mountains and appeals to photography enthusiasts. On this tour, you would have plenty of time to photograph the rainbow mountains, rocky landscapes, and desert scenery. We could adjust your itinerary to suit your photography interests. • Days 1–2: Zhangye National Geopark (the rainbow mountains) • Day 3: Zhangye Binggou Danxia landforms • Day 4: Dunhuang's Mogao Caves and desert scenery • Days 5–6: Dunhuang Museum and the geological park The Rainbow Mountains You would have 2 days dedicated to Zhangye National Geopark. One day would be spent at the rainbow mountains to capture the sunrise, sunset, and beauty of the colors in the changing light. The fourth viewing platform is the perfect place to witness a sunrise or sunset. For a diverse range of rock forms and colors, head to the first viewing platform. The second viewing platform offers the ideal spot for panoramic views. On another day, you would visit Binggou Danxia landforms to photograph the unique Yadan rock formations. Sunsets over the Singing Sand Dunes and Devil City are also popular with photographers. As the sun goes down above the expansive Gobi Desert, you might feel as though you have been transported to another world. If you are planning this trip in autumn, particularly from mid-September to late October, we recommend an additional 2 days to explore the nearby enchanting Ejina Desert Poplar Forest in its most beautiful season, which catches the eyes of photographers. See our 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Tour. If you are interested in these tours, don't hesitate to contact us to start your Dunhuang trip. 6-Day Zhangye and Dunhuang Tour Silk Road Photography Tour 6-Day Zhangye and Dunhuang Tour Silk Road Photography Tour 6-Day Zhangye and Dunhuang Tour Silk Road Photography Tour 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour When Silk Road Culture Meets Fabulous Fall Colors 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour When Silk Road Culture Meets Fabulous Fall Colors 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour When Silk Road Culture Meets Fabulous Fall Colors Itinerary 3: 12-Day China Silk Road Tour with Dunhuang (The Classic Silk Road Trip) This is the most popular Silk Road itinerary chosen by our customers. If you want to get an in-depth understanding of the Silk Road, don't miss this 12-day tour from Xi'an to Kashgar. From east to west, delve into the important cities on China's ancient Silk Road to get a comprehensive understanding of its history, minority culture, and unique landscapes. • Days 1–3: Xi'an — Big Wild Goose Pagoda and the Terracotta Army • Day 4: Zhangye — the Rainbow Mountains • Days 5–7: Dunhuang — the Mogao Caves, the Singing Sand Dunes, Crescent Moon Spring, and Jiayuguan • Day 8: Turpan — the Karez Well System, the ancient city of Jiaohe, and Turpan Museum • Day 9: Urumqi — Erdaoqiao Market • Days 10–12: Kashgar — Kashgar Old City, Karakul Lake, and Muztagata Going beyond the highlights in Dunhuang and Zhangye, you would explore Xi'an and Xinjiang. In Xi'an, you would visit the must-see attractions, such as the Terracotta Army and the medieval city wall. For more exclusive experiences, make your own terracotta warriors in a local craftsman's home, which is perfect for family enjoyment. Alternatively, challenge your taste buds in the lively Muslim Quarter. For couples, dress up in Hanfu or Tang attire, delving into Chinese culture. The last section of this itinerary is in Xinjiang. You would visit ancient relics dating back to the earliest times of the Silk Road, such as the Karez Well System, the ancient city of Jiaohe, and Turpan Museum. Marvel at the unique natural scenery, such as Karakul Lake and Muztagata near Kashgar. To deeply experience the exotic Uyghur culture and their authentic life, we would arrange a visit to a local Uyghur family and you would enjoy some afternoon tea with the locals in an ancient teahouse. We could adjust this itinerary according to your preferences. If you have any thoughts about this Silk Road tour package, please share them with us. 12-Day Silk Road Private Tour from Xian to Kashgar Xi'an-Zhangye-Dunhuang-Turpan-Urumqi-Kashgar 12-Day Silk Road Private Tour from Xian to Kashgar Xi'an-Zhangye-Dunhuang-Turpan-Urumqi-Kashgar 12-Day Silk Road Private Tour from Xian to Kashgar Xi'an-Zhangye-Dunhuang-Turpan-Urumqi-Kashgar Touring Dunhuang with Us We would customize the tour of your choice to meet your preferences using our expertise in China travel spanning over 20 years. Feel free to contact us for a tailored itinerary to suit your interests, group size, budget, and any special requests. More itineraries including Dunhuang: • 8-Day Qinghai Lake, Zhangye, and Dunhuang Tour • 10-Day Xinjiang, Gansu, and Qinghai Highlights Tour • 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour • 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour • 21-Day China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour