ID: 469e173db2595cb
Title: Shanghai Shopping - Top Places to Shop for Souvenirs
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/shanghai/shopping.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Shanghai is one of the most prosperous cities in the world. Anything you can imagine is available for purchase here. The main shopping streets, Nanjing Road and Huaihai Road, offer a plethora of international brand names. If fashion is not your interest, try one of Shanghai's numerous flea markets beneath Shanghai's magnificent shopping malls, department stores and boutiques. The outdoor bazaar at Yuyuan Garden sells various souvenirs, arts and crafts; the Cultural Street Market on Fuzhou Road and the clothing street market on Shimen Road are traditional open-air Chinese markets. The Best Souvenirs You Might Like Shanghai is close to Suzhou, home to the finest silk producers in the world, so it is possible to find fine silk products at good prices. You can have a unique shopping experience and a taste of old Shanghai if you want to buy a qipao. See Where to Buy a Qipao or Have One Tailor Made in Shanghai. Shanghai Silk Building Many locals shop at the Shanghai Silk Building due to its excellent silk quality. • Address: Huaihai Road (1226 Huaihai Zhong Lu, near Huating Road) and Nanjing Road (588 East Nanjing Road) Jiangnan Silk Museum 江南丝绸馆 Here you can see how silk is produced from the cocoons of silkworms and turned into the beautiful fabric we all know and love. The showroom offers everything from small souvenirs to larger items. The silk duvets are of excellent value. The beauty of real silk is that it's so light and packs easily! • Address: 289 Aomen Road, Putuo District (普陀区澳门路289号) Shanghai Silk Mansion Company Ltd.上海真丝商厦 This is the largest retail and wholesale center for silk fabrics in Shanghai. Hence, it has been given the name "The King of Silk" around the world. The company owns a wholesale store and 10 chain stores on main commerce streets of Shanghai. As the de facto shop for presents for traveling foreign and state guests, Silk Mansion has welcomed many VIPs, such as President Clinton and his family. Calligraphy Works, Paintings, Wood Carvings Yuyuan Bazaar has an amazing array of traditional Chinese items, including paintings by folk artists, pearls from Taihu Lake, calligraphy, old bank notes, and wood carvings. Curio Street at Dongtai Road 东台古玩街 This once popular antique street is now closed. You may find porcelain made in Jingdezhen in some big department stores. Shanghai Museum has some of the best porcelain available. • Address: 201 Renmin Da Dao. Jiading Straw Handicrafts Xuhang Township of Jiading District, Shanghai, is famous for its soft and tough yellow straws, the best material for straw handcrafts. These light and strong handicrafts include handbags, fruit bowls, cup covers, and slippers. The excellent workmanship and the attractive style make the products a popular souvenir in Shanghai. Pearl Shopping in Shanghai Shanghai also has some great places to buy pearls... See our article on how and where to buy the best pearls in Shanghai. Top Shopping Areas Any Shopaholic Will Love The night view of the Bund The gentrification of Shanghai's iconic riverfront Bund has seen luxury brands such as Giorgio Armani at No. 3 on the Bund, Dolce & Gabbana at No. 6, and Cartier, Patek Philippe, Ermenegildo Zegna, and Boucheron at No. 18. All have occupied former colonial banking headquarters buildings. Blessed with a beautiful view of the Huangpu River, this area is very attractive for shoppers. Shanghai Boutique Shops in the French Concession 法租界 It is said that the charm of Shanghai lies in the old streets and neighborhoods that make up the former French Concession, an area of Shanghai once designated for the French colonialists. Today it consists of Luwan and Xuhui Districts. It is a great area to explore, from old European buildings in shady avenues to cafes and restaurants, and the upmarket shopping area of Huaihu Road. You will find fashionable boutiques selling everything from designer handbags to pricy silks. Huaihai Road Market 淮海市场 Huaihai Road is a bustling commercial street and one of the busiest shopping areas in Shanghai. It sells clothing of every kind and is the epitome of Shanghai's modern history, a showcase of its prosperity and the latest fashions. Hundreds of shops display a myriad of styles, including Western and international name brands. Nanjing East Road 南京东路 Click for more on Nanjing Road Nanjing East Road is a well-known shopping area that offers a dizzying array of items. There are more than 600 shops offering anything a shopper could want. Stretching more than three miles starting at Shanghai's Center, this pedestrian street is more than just a shopping street; it has also become an area for locals and visitors to experience the culture of modern Shanghai. The area is particularly bright and fun in the evenings. Nanjing West Road 南京西路 Nanjing West Road is said to be the first shopping street in China. It is lined with some of the best Shanghai shopping malls brimming with luxury brands like Dior, Chanel, Armani, Prada and Calvin Klein. Here, you can enjoy a combination of shopping, relaxation, and entertainment. Taikang Road is an old Shanghai-style lane combining the arts and commerce between Ruijin Second Road (瑞金二路) and South Chongqing Road (重庆南路), near Ruijin Hospital. This street has a culture all of its own with art studios and original boutiques providing unique shopping opportunities. Tianzifang is a famous lane running off Taikang Road. Refurbished abandoned factories and warehouses have turned this area into an art precinct. A coffee shop culture has developed and newlyweds use the area for photos. There is even graffiti art on the walls, which is unusual for China. It is truly a place where you can sit down to relax and watch the world go by. Shopping at Xintiandi Xintiandi is one of the busiest urban tourist attractions and is imbued with the city's historical and cultural legacies. Located in the heart of the city, Xintiandi is a trendy cultural and entertainment center built to reflect a combination of Shikumen and modern architecture. The Shikumen building was created by converting residential blocks into a multifunctional dining, retail and entertainment center with many restaurants, boutiques, cafes, and bars of international standard. Shanghai Yatai Clothing and Gifts Market 上海亚太服饰礼品市场 Shanghai Yatai Clothing and Gifts Market is one of the largest subway markets in Shanghai. Covering an area of 19,022 square meters (4.7 acres), there are about 500 shops selling various products like clothing, accessories, fabrics, suitcases, hats, shoes, handicrafts, and souvenirs. Quality is not very good, but prices are low. Bargain hard there. There are also tailor shops where you can get tailor-made clothes. • Opening hours: Monday - Thursday 10:00 - 20:00; Friday - Sunday 10:00 - 20:30 • Transport: Take subway line 2 and get off at Shanghai Science & Technology Museum Station. Shanghai Yong'an Department Store 永安百货 Yong'an Department Store was founded in 1918 by a business family Guo, and was one of the country's first department stores to carry global brands. Yong'an and three other stores, Xianshi, Xinxin, and Daxin, were seen as symbols of old Shanghai's prosperity in the 1920s. The store, located in the middle of Nanjing Road, China's No.1 Commercial Street, restored its original appearance of 87 years ago, furnishings in European style popular in Shanghai during the 1920s. This department store combines shopping, food, and leisure with elegant surroundings. • Address: 635 East Nanjing Road, Huangpu District (黄浦区南京东路635号) • Tel: 021-6322 4466 Name brand fashions can be purchased in the shopping malls on Nanjing and Huaihai Road. If you are searching for a traditional Chinese qipao dress, try the boutiques on Changle Road (长乐路) and Maoming Road (茂名路). The Chinese Qipao Street in Changle Road, near Jingjiang Hotel, contains about 20 qipao shops, and most of them provide tailoring services. Shaanxi Road (陕西路) and Huacao Road (华漕路) are crowded with small shops selling cheap shoes. South Bund Fabric Market 南外滩轻纺面料市场 The South Bund Fabric Market is the ultimate stop for buying fabric, where three air-conditioned levels offer a vast variety of fabrics. This fabric market also has all of Shanghai's best tailors under the same roof. Wade through mountains of fabric perfect for a design of your own or for one of the numerous samples provided. This is a perfect place for anyone enjoying sewing or wanting to have custom-made beautiful clothes or home accessories. Remember to bargain hard to get a fair price. • Address: 399 Lujiabang Road, 陆家浜399号 Located in the Middle Huaihai Road, Cybermart is the most central market for all sorts of gadgetry, including DVD players, iPods, laptops, digital cameras, and camcorders, as well as blank CDs, DVDs, memory sticks and software. Although China is not the best place in Asia to get discounted electronic products, you can get a reasonable price here if you are good at haggling. Shanghai Xinhua Book Store has over 4,000 branches throughout the city. The one close to east Nanjing Road is on the 5th floor at 221 Middle Henan Road. Lao Fengxiang Silverware Shop 老凤祥银楼 Lao Fengxiang Silverware Shop was established in 1848. It is the name brand in the Chinese golden ware and silverware field, and its has won more than 120 prizes in many design competitions during the last years. Tour Shanghai with China Highlights Tour Shanghai with China Highlights Our tours are private. You are the key to controlling the pace of the tour; if you would like to spend more or less time in some markets, just let your guide know. The evening is your free time, and you can do some shopping on your own. Your guide will be glad to give you some recommendations and assistance if you need help. Here are our most popular Shanghai tours, for your reference: • 3-Day Essence of Shanghai and Watertown Tour including famouse attractions in Shanghai and Xitang Watertown • Best-selling China tour including Shanghai: 11-Day CLASSIC WONDERS (Beijing, Xi'an, Guilin, Shanghai) • Shopping in China - Things to Buy and How to Buy Them • The Best of Shanghai Markets - Bargains and Diversity