ID: 40fe08901e2b7ad6
Title: Tibet Tours 2026, Customized Tibetan Travel
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tibet/tours.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Renowned as the "Third Pole of the World," Tibet boasts majestic Mount Everest, countless snow-capped peaks, and over 1,000 lakes, making it a once-in-a-lifetime destination. Beyond its natural wonders, the region's vibrant Tibetan culture and the prosperous new lives of its people will offer you a compelling experience. With China Highlights, your Tibetan travel can be enriched with unique and personalized experiences. Immerse yourself in local culture by sharing a cup of Tibetan tea with locals, participating in traditional incense making or farming, conversing with a monk at a high-altitude monastery, or embarking on a trek and camping near sacred mountains and lakes. Whether you're a passionate advocate for Tibetan culture or captivated by the breathtaking landscapes, we're dedicated to making your dream Tibet tour a reality. Top Tibet Tours Picked by Our Customers These popular itineraries, carefully designed to cater to various interests and travel durations, are based on our two decades of experience. You can easily customize any of these itineraries or create a completely new trip tailored to your specific preferences. Pilgrimage to the Roof of the World 8-Day Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Private Tour View more Holy City and Holy Lake — Refresh Your Soul! 5-Day Tibet Tour including Lhasa and Lake Yamdrok View more Fall in Love with the City of Sunlight 5-Day Tibet Winter Tour View more Capture the Spirit of Lhasa 4-Day Lhasa Highlights Private Tour View more Experience the Roof-of-the-World Railway 7-Day Tibet Tour by Train from Xining View more Discover Tibet's Cultural Origins 8-Day Tibet Tour including Tsedang, Shigatse, and Lhasa View more Experience the Mysteries and Vitality of Tibet 7-Day Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome Tour View More Tibet Trekking Tours Tibet is a paradise for hikers. We have selected the best trekking tours in Tibet for your reference. no matter whether you would like to just have a taste of the short trekkings near Lhasa or want to challenge yourself with a multi-day trekking for the amazing plateau scenery, we are happy to help you to plan a once-in-a-life Tibet trekking tour. Pilgrimage to Mt. Kailash — "Center of the World" 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar View More Pilgrim's Progress on the Path to the Sky 11-Day Tibet Tour with Everest Base Camp Trek View More Fulfill the Most Scenic Pilgrmage in Tibet 9-Day Tibet Tour with Lhasa and a Ganden–Samye Trek View More Top China Tours including Tibet Whether you're planning your first China trip including Tibet or combining Tibet with another region for your return journey, the following tours can offer inspiration. A Grand Exploration of China 21-Day China Tour with Holy Tibet View More Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 18-Day Epic China Tour with Yunnan and Tibet View More China Golden Triangle with Holy Tibet 2-Week Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai View More Tibet Journey by Rail 10-Day Beijing-Lhasa-Shanghai Tour View More An Epic Landscape Journey to Tibet 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour View More Follow in the Footsteps of Merchants and Monks 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour View More Overland Tours including Tibet It can be complex to combine Tibet with neighboring regions across China's border. The following itineraries are carefully designed to optimize the sequence of destinations, connections, and costs. A Great Road Trip across the Himalayas 11-Day Overland Trip from Lhasa to Kathmandu View More An Epic Himalayan Journey 3-Week Nepal, Tibet, and Bhutan Tour View More Discover the Both Sides of the Himalayas 20-Day China, Nepal, and India Tour View More No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us Renowned as the "Third Pole of the World," Tibet boasts majestic Mount Everest, countless snow-capped peaks, and over 1,000 lakes, making it a once-in-a-lifetime destination. Beyond its natural wonders, the region's vibrant Tibetan culture and the prosperous new lives of its people will offer you a compelling experience. With China Highlights, your Tibetan travel can be enriched with unique and personalized experiences. Immerse yourself in local culture by sharing a cup of Tibetan tea with locals, participating in traditional incense making or farming, conversing with a monk at a high-altitude monastery, or embarking on a trek and camping near sacred mountains and lakes. Whether you're a passionate advocate for Tibetan culture or captivated by the breathtaking landscapes, we're dedicated to making your dream Tibet tour a reality. Top Tibet Tours Picked by Our Customers These popular itineraries, carefully designed to cater to various interests and travel durations, are based on our two decades of experience. You can easily customize any of these itineraries or create a completely new trip tailored to your specific preferences. Pilgrimage to the Roof of the World 8-Day Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Private Tour View more Holy City and Holy Lake — Refresh Your Soul! 5-Day Tibet Tour including Lhasa and Lake Yamdrok View more Fall in Love with the City of Sunlight 5-Day Tibet Winter Tour View more Capture the Spirit of Lhasa 4-Day Lhasa Highlights Private Tour View more Pilgrimage to the Roof of the World 8-Day Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Private Tour View more Pilgrimage to the Roof of the World 8-Day Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Private Tour View more Holy City and Holy Lake — Refresh Your Soul! 5-Day Tibet Tour including Lhasa and Lake Yamdrok View more Holy City and Holy Lake — Refresh Your Soul! 5-Day Tibet Tour including Lhasa and Lake Yamdrok View more Fall in Love with the City of Sunlight 5-Day Tibet Winter Tour View more Fall in Love with the City of Sunlight 5-Day Tibet Winter Tour View more Capture the Spirit of Lhasa 4-Day Lhasa Highlights Private Tour View more Capture the Spirit of Lhasa 4-Day Lhasa Highlights Private Tour View more Experience the Roof-of-the-World Railway 7-Day Tibet Tour by Train from Xining View more Discover Tibet's Cultural Origins 8-Day Tibet Tour including Tsedang, Shigatse, and Lhasa View more Experience the Mysteries and Vitality of Tibet 7-Day Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome Tour View More Experience the Roof-of-the-World Railway 7-Day Tibet Tour by Train from Xining View more Experience the Roof-of-the-World Railway 7-Day Tibet Tour by Train from Xining View more Discover Tibet's Cultural Origins 8-Day Tibet Tour including Tsedang, Shigatse, and Lhasa View more Discover Tibet's Cultural Origins 8-Day Tibet Tour including Tsedang, Shigatse, and Lhasa View more Experience the Mysteries and Vitality of Tibet 7-Day Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome Tour View More Experience the Mysteries and Vitality of Tibet 7-Day Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome Tour View More Tibet is a paradise for hikers. We have selected the best trekking tours in Tibet for your reference. no matter whether you would like to just have a taste of the short trekkings near Lhasa or want to challenge yourself with a multi-day trekking for the amazing plateau scenery, we are happy to help you to plan a once-in-a-life Tibet trekking tour. Pilgrimage to Mt. Kailash — "Center of the World" 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar View More Pilgrim's Progress on the Path to the Sky 11-Day Tibet Tour with Everest Base Camp Trek View More Fulfill the Most Scenic Pilgrmage in Tibet 9-Day Tibet Tour with Lhasa and a Ganden–Samye Trek View More Pilgrimage to Mt. Kailash — "Center of the World" 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar View More Pilgrimage to Mt. Kailash — "Center of the World" 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar View More Pilgrim's Progress on the Path to the Sky 11-Day Tibet Tour with Everest Base Camp Trek View More Pilgrim's Progress on the Path to the Sky 11-Day Tibet Tour with Everest Base Camp Trek View More Fulfill the Most Scenic Pilgrmage in Tibet 9-Day Tibet Tour with Lhasa and a Ganden–Samye Trek View More Fulfill the Most Scenic Pilgrmage in Tibet 9-Day Tibet Tour with Lhasa and a Ganden–Samye Trek View More Top China Tours including Tibet Whether you're planning your first China trip including Tibet or combining Tibet with another region for your return journey, the following tours can offer inspiration. A Grand Exploration of China 21-Day China Tour with Holy Tibet View More Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 18-Day Epic China Tour with Yunnan and Tibet View More China Golden Triangle with Holy Tibet 2-Week Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai View More Tibet Journey by Rail 10-Day Beijing-Lhasa-Shanghai Tour View More A Grand Exploration of China 21-Day China Tour with Holy Tibet View More A Grand Exploration of China 21-Day China Tour with Holy Tibet View More Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 18-Day Epic China Tour with Yunnan and Tibet View More Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 18-Day Epic China Tour with Yunnan and Tibet View More China Golden Triangle with Holy Tibet 2-Week Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai View More China Golden Triangle with Holy Tibet 2-Week Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai View More Tibet Journey by Rail 10-Day Beijing-Lhasa-Shanghai Tour View More Tibet Journey by Rail 10-Day Beijing-Lhasa-Shanghai Tour View More An Epic Landscape Journey to Tibet 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour View More Follow in the Footsteps of Merchants and Monks 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour View More An Epic Landscape Journey to Tibet 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour View More An Epic Landscape Journey to Tibet 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour View More Follow in the Footsteps of Merchants and Monks 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour View More Follow in the Footsteps of Merchants and Monks 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour View More Overland Tours including Tibet It can be complex to combine Tibet with neighboring regions across China's border. The following itineraries are carefully designed to optimize the sequence of destinations, connections, and costs. A Great Road Trip across the Himalayas 11-Day Overland Trip from Lhasa to Kathmandu View More An Epic Himalayan Journey 3-Week Nepal, Tibet, and Bhutan Tour View More Discover the Both Sides of the Himalayas 20-Day China, Nepal, and India Tour View More A Great Road Trip across the Himalayas 11-Day Overland Trip from Lhasa to Kathmandu View More A Great Road Trip across the Himalayas 11-Day Overland Trip from Lhasa to Kathmandu View More An Epic Himalayan Journey 3-Week Nepal, Tibet, and Bhutan Tour View More An Epic Himalayan Journey 3-Week Nepal, Tibet, and Bhutan Tour View More Discover the Both Sides of the Himalayas 20-Day China, Nepal, and India Tour View More Discover the Both Sides of the Himalayas 20-Day China, Nepal, and India Tour View More No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Tibet Travel Tips Expand All 1. How to Obtain a Tibet Travel Permit All foreign travelers need a Tibet Entry Permit for entering Tibet (Travel Permits and Military Permits may also be needed for areas outside Lhasa). Permits can only be obtained by qualified Chinese tour operators and the application process often changes without warning. Foreigners are not allowed to tour Tibet without a local guide. Book a tour with us. Submit a copy of your passport ID and China visa pages at least 20 days in advance. If you work/live in China, you also need to submit a working certificate issued by your company or a proof of residence. The Tibet Tourism Bureau will check the documents and send us a paper travel permit 7 days before you enter Tibet. We will get the travel permit to you before you board your flight/train to Lhasa. Foreigners can hardly ever obtain travel permits for March, during Tibetan New Year, when Tibet is closed for political reasons. 2. Transportation to and from Tibet Flights: We suggest you take a flight that arrives in Lhasa in the morning. Morning flights are more likely to be on time. Flights take around 2 hours from Chengdu, Xi'an, Chongqing, or Kunming, or around 5 hours from Beijing or Shanghai. Trains: We suggest you take a train to Lhasa from Xining or Lanzhou. Then your journey will be a bit shorter and there'll be a higher likelihood of successful booking since there are more trains per day from these two cities than from more distant places. It takes about 20 hours from Xining or 23 hours from Lanzhou, and the best scenery begins about 10 hours before arriving in Lhasa. There are also direct trains to Lhasa from Beijing or Shanghai, which we do not recommend: the journey takes over 40 hours. If you decide to go to Lhasa by train, it's better to have a back-up plan; for example, to fly instead and take the train back. It is much easier to book a train ticket from Lhasa. Taking a train to Tibet will not help with adapting to the high altitude. The train to Lhasa is air-tight and supplies sufficient oxygen, so you'll still need to adapt to the thin air after leaving the train. Connecting to Tibet via International Flights Flying in: Leave no less than 3 hours between flights, if you want to fly first to another city in China and then transfer onto a flight to Tibet. We'll pass your Tibet Entry Permit on to you as you wait for the onward flight. By train: If you transfer to a train for Tibet after an international flight, we will send you your scanned permits in advance. Scanned permit printouts are enough for train travel. Generally, we recommend you don't travel to Tibet directly after an international flight. The combination of jet-lag and tiredness is likely to make you more vulnerable to altitude sickness. We suggest you spend at least 2 days elsewhere in China and then travel on to Tibet. 3. Altitude of Main Cities & Places of Interest in Tibet City Altitude Attraction Altitude Lhasa 3658 m/12001 ft Lake Yamdrok 4500 m/14764 ft Nagqu 4507 m/14787 ft Tashilunpo Monastery 4800 m/15748 ft Nyingchi 3000 m/9843 ft Rongbuk Monastery 5100 m/16732 ft Tsedang 3500 m/11483 ft Mt. Everest Base Camp 5200 m/17060 ft Shigatse 3836 m/12585 ft Yumbulagang Palace 3700 m/12139 ft Gyangtse 4040 m/13255 ft Lake Namtso 4700 m/15420 ft Tingri 4300 m/14108 ft Samye Monastery 3556 m/11667 ft Tibet Travel Tips Expand All 1. How to Obtain a Tibet Travel Permit All foreign travelers need a Tibet Entry Permit for entering Tibet (Travel Permits and Military Permits may also be needed for areas outside Lhasa). Permits can only be obtained by qualified Chinese tour operators and the application process often changes without warning. Foreigners are not allowed to tour Tibet without a local guide. Book a tour with us. Submit a copy of your passport ID and China visa pages at least 20 days in advance. If you work/live in China, you also need to submit a working certificate issued by your company or a proof of residence. The Tibet Tourism Bureau will check the documents and send us a paper travel permit 7 days before you enter Tibet. We will get the travel permit to you before you board your flight/train to Lhasa. Foreigners can hardly ever obtain travel permits for March, during Tibetan New Year, when Tibet is closed for political reasons. 2. Transportation to and from Tibet Flights: We suggest you take a flight that arrives in Lhasa in the morning. Morning flights are more likely to be on time. Flights take around 2 hours from Chengdu, Xi'an, Chongqing, or Kunming, or around 5 hours from Beijing or Shanghai. Trains: We suggest you take a train to Lhasa from Xining or Lanzhou. Then your journey will be a bit shorter and there'll be a higher likelihood of successful booking since there are more trains per day from these two cities than from more distant places. It takes about 20 hours from Xining or 23 hours from Lanzhou, and the best scenery begins about 10 hours before arriving in Lhasa. There are also direct trains to Lhasa from Beijing or Shanghai, which we do not recommend: the journey takes over 40 hours. If you decide to go to Lhasa by train, it's better to have a back-up plan; for example, to fly instead and take the train back. It is much easier to book a train ticket from Lhasa. Taking a train to Tibet will not help with adapting to the high altitude. The train to Lhasa is air-tight and supplies sufficient oxygen, so you'll still need to adapt to the thin air after leaving the train. Connecting to Tibet via International Flights Flying in: Leave no less than 3 hours between flights, if you want to fly first to another city in China and then transfer onto a flight to Tibet. We'll pass your Tibet Entry Permit on to you as you wait for the onward flight. By train: If you transfer to a train for Tibet after an international flight, we will send you your scanned permits in advance. Scanned permit printouts are enough for train travel. Generally, we recommend you don't travel to Tibet directly after an international flight. The combination of jet-lag and tiredness is likely to make you more vulnerable to altitude sickness. We suggest you spend at least 2 days elsewhere in China and then travel on to Tibet. 3. Altitude of Main Cities & Places of Interest in Tibet City Altitude Attraction Altitude Lhasa 3658 m/12001 ft Lake Yamdrok 4500 m/14764 ft Nagqu 4507 m/14787 ft Tashilunpo Monastery 4800 m/15748 ft Nyingchi 3000 m/9843 ft Rongbuk Monastery 5100 m/16732 ft Tsedang 3500 m/11483 ft Mt. Everest Base Camp 5200 m/17060 ft Shigatse 3836 m/12585 ft Yumbulagang Palace 3700 m/12139 ft Gyangtse 4040 m/13255 ft Lake Namtso 4700 m/15420 ft Tingri 4300 m/14108 ft Samye Monastery 3556 m/11667 ft Expand All 1. How to Obtain a Tibet Travel Permit All foreign travelers need a Tibet Entry Permit for entering Tibet (Travel Permits and Military Permits may also be needed for areas outside Lhasa). Permits can only be obtained by qualified Chinese tour operators and the application process often changes without warning. Foreigners are not allowed to tour Tibet without a local guide. Book a tour with us. Submit a copy of your passport ID and China visa pages at least 20 days in advance. If you work/live in China, you also need to submit a working certificate issued by your company or a proof of residence. The Tibet Tourism Bureau will check the documents and send us a paper travel permit 7 days before you enter Tibet. We will get the travel permit to you before you board your flight/train to Lhasa. Foreigners can hardly ever obtain travel permits for March, during Tibetan New Year, when Tibet is closed for political reasons. 2. Transportation to and from Tibet Flights: We suggest you take a flight that arrives in Lhasa in the morning. Morning flights are more likely to be on time. Flights take around 2 hours from Chengdu, Xi'an, Chongqing, or Kunming, or around 5 hours from Beijing or Shanghai. Trains: We suggest you take a train to Lhasa from Xining or Lanzhou. Then your journey will be a bit shorter and there'll be a higher likelihood of successful booking since there are more trains per day from these two cities than from more distant places. It takes about 20 hours from Xining or 23 hours from Lanzhou, and the best scenery begins about 10 hours before arriving in Lhasa. There are also direct trains to Lhasa from Beijing or Shanghai, which we do not recommend: the journey takes over 40 hours. If you decide to go to Lhasa by train, it's better to have a back-up plan; for example, to fly instead and take the train back. It is much easier to book a train ticket from Lhasa. Taking a train to Tibet will not help with adapting to the high altitude. The train to Lhasa is air-tight and supplies sufficient oxygen, so you'll still need to adapt to the thin air after leaving the train. Connecting to Tibet via International Flights Flying in: Leave no less than 3 hours between flights, if you want to fly first to another city in China and then transfer onto a flight to Tibet. We'll pass your Tibet Entry Permit on to you as you wait for the onward flight. By train: If you transfer to a train for Tibet after an international flight, we will send you your scanned permits in advance. Scanned permit printouts are enough for train travel. Generally, we recommend you don't travel to Tibet directly after an international flight. The combination of jet-lag and tiredness is likely to make you more vulnerable to altitude sickness. We suggest you spend at least 2 days elsewhere in China and then travel on to Tibet. 3. Altitude of Main Cities & Places of Interest in Tibet City Altitude Attraction Altitude Lhasa 3658 m/12001 ft Lake Yamdrok 4500 m/14764 ft Nagqu 4507 m/14787 ft Tashilunpo Monastery 4800 m/15748 ft Nyingchi 3000 m/9843 ft Rongbuk Monastery 5100 m/16732 ft Tsedang 3500 m/11483 ft Mt. Everest Base Camp 5200 m/17060 ft Shigatse 3836 m/12585 ft Yumbulagang Palace 3700 m/12139 ft Gyangtse 4040 m/13255 ft Lake Namtso 4700 m/15420 ft Tingri 4300 m/14108 ft Samye Monastery 3556 m/11667 ft 1. How to Obtain a Tibet Travel Permit All foreign travelers need a Tibet Entry Permit for entering Tibet (Travel Permits and Military Permits may also be needed for areas outside Lhasa). Permits can only be obtained by qualified Chinese tour operators and the application process often changes without warning. Foreigners are not allowed to tour Tibet without a local guide. Book a tour with us. Submit a copy of your passport ID and China visa pages at least 20 days in advance. If you work/live in China, you also need to submit a working certificate issued by your company or a proof of residence. The Tibet Tourism Bureau will check the documents and send us a paper travel permit 7 days before you enter Tibet. We will get the travel permit to you before you board your flight/train to Lhasa. Foreigners can hardly ever obtain travel permits for March, during Tibetan New Year, when Tibet is closed for political reasons. All foreign travelers need a Tibet Entry Permit for entering Tibet (Travel Permits and Military Permits may also be needed for areas outside Lhasa). Permits can only be obtained by qualified Chinese tour operators and the application process often changes without warning. Foreigners are not allowed to tour Tibet without a local guide. • Book a tour with us. • Submit a copy of your passport ID and China visa pages at least 20 days in advance. • If you work/live in China, you also need to submit a working certificate issued by your company or a proof of residence. • The Tibet Tourism Bureau will check the documents and send us a paper travel permit 7 days before you enter Tibet. • We will get the travel permit to you before you board your flight/train to Lhasa. Foreigners can hardly ever obtain travel permits for March, during Tibetan New Year, when Tibet is closed for political reasons. 2. Transportation to and from Tibet Flights: We suggest you take a flight that arrives in Lhasa in the morning. Morning flights are more likely to be on time. Flights take around 2 hours from Chengdu, Xi'an, Chongqing, or Kunming, or around 5 hours from Beijing or Shanghai. Trains: We suggest you take a train to Lhasa from Xining or Lanzhou. Then your journey will be a bit shorter and there'll be a higher likelihood of successful booking since there are more trains per day from these two cities than from more distant places. It takes about 20 hours from Xining or 23 hours from Lanzhou, and the best scenery begins about 10 hours before arriving in Lhasa. There are also direct trains to Lhasa from Beijing or Shanghai, which we do not recommend: the journey takes over 40 hours. If you decide to go to Lhasa by train, it's better to have a back-up plan; for example, to fly instead and take the train back. It is much easier to book a train ticket from Lhasa. Taking a train to Tibet will not help with adapting to the high altitude. The train to Lhasa is air-tight and supplies sufficient oxygen, so you'll still need to adapt to the thin air after leaving the train. Connecting to Tibet via International Flights Flying in: Leave no less than 3 hours between flights, if you want to fly first to another city in China and then transfer onto a flight to Tibet. We'll pass your Tibet Entry Permit on to you as you wait for the onward flight. By train: If you transfer to a train for Tibet after an international flight, we will send you your scanned permits in advance. Scanned permit printouts are enough for train travel. Generally, we recommend you don't travel to Tibet directly after an international flight. The combination of jet-lag and tiredness is likely to make you more vulnerable to altitude sickness. We suggest you spend at least 2 days elsewhere in China and then travel on to Tibet. We suggest you take a flight that arrives in Lhasa in the morning. Morning flights are more likely to be on time. Flights take around 2 hours from Chengdu, Xi'an, Chongqing, or Kunming, or around 5 hours from Beijing or Shanghai. We suggest you take a train to Lhasa from Xining or Lanzhou. Then your journey will be a bit shorter and there'll be a higher likelihood of successful booking since there are more trains per day from these two cities than from more distant places. It takes about 20 hours from Xining or 23 hours from Lanzhou, and the best scenery begins about 10 hours before arriving in Lhasa. There are also direct trains to Lhasa from Beijing or Shanghai, which we do not recommend: the journey takes over 40 hours. If you decide to go to Lhasa by train, it's better to have a back-up plan; for example, to fly instead and take the train back. It is much easier to book a train ticket from Lhasa. Taking a train to Tibet will not help with adapting to the high altitude. The train to Lhasa is air-tight and supplies sufficient oxygen, so you'll still need to adapt to the thin air after leaving the train. Connecting to Tibet via International Flights • Flying in: Leave no less than 3 hours between flights, if you want to fly first to another city in China and then transfer onto a flight to Tibet. We'll pass your Tibet Entry Permit on to you as you wait for the onward flight. • By train: If you transfer to a train for Tibet after an international flight, we will send you your scanned permits in advance. Scanned permit printouts are enough for train travel. • Generally, we recommend you don't travel to Tibet directly after an international flight. The combination of jet-lag and tiredness is likely to make you more vulnerable to altitude sickness. We suggest you spend at least 2 days elsewhere in China and then travel on to Tibet. 3. Altitude of Main Cities & Places of Interest in Tibet City Altitude Attraction Altitude Lhasa 3658 m/12001 ft Lake Yamdrok 4500 m/14764 ft Nagqu 4507 m/14787 ft Tashilunpo Monastery 4800 m/15748 ft Nyingchi 3000 m/9843 ft Rongbuk Monastery 5100 m/16732 ft Tsedang 3500 m/11483 ft Mt. Everest Base Camp 5200 m/17060 ft Shigatse 3836 m/12585 ft Yumbulagang Palace 3700 m/12139 ft Gyangtse 4040 m/13255 ft Lake Namtso 4700 m/15420 ft Tingri 4300 m/14108 ft Samye Monastery 3556 m/11667 ft City Altitude Attraction Altitude Lhasa 3658 m/12001 ft Lake Yamdrok 4500 m/14764 ft Nagqu 4507 m/14787 ft Tashilunpo Monastery 4800 m/15748 ft Nyingchi 3000 m/9843 ft Rongbuk Monastery 5100 m/16732 ft Tsedang 3500 m/11483 ft Mt. Everest Base Camp 5200 m/17060 ft Shigatse 3836 m/12585 ft Yumbulagang Palace 3700 m/12139 ft Gyangtse 4040 m/13255 ft Lake Namtso 4700 m/15420 ft Tingri 4300 m/14108 ft Samye Monastery 3556 m/11667 ft