ID: 4ce5d2518149ded7
Title: 3-hour A Taste of Hong Kong With Locals
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/hongkong/hongkong-food-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Hong Kong is famous for its delicious treats, earning it the title of "Food Paradise". We would go into the lively heart of Hong Kong – Central, for a fun 3-hour food adventure with a knowledgeable local guide. You can indulge in the area's most famous long-standing Hong Kong establishments, unique street snacks, and traditional drinks while exploring historic buildings and riding the city's oldest transport. Learn more about the food culture and unveil the secrets of this amazing city, from its past to its future. Tour Highlights Taste 10+ kinds of the most authentic traditional Hong Kong cuisine. Step into the bustling old Central district to learn about Hong Kong's real food culture. Visit local antique market and historical landmark - Man Mo Temple. Follow our passionate local foodie guide to have a memorable food tour. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 11:00 am Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 11 AM, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Sheung Wan MTR Station Exit E2 (Street Level) Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 11:10 am Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Wing Lok Street to taste a range of signature dim sum, including Har Gau (crystal shrimp dumpling), Siu Mai (pork and shrimp dumpling), turnip cake, water chestnut cake, and even chicken feet. Try the exclusive Hong Kong street food, the egg waffle, and experience its incredible texture made from just eggs and flour. Then we'll go to the Sheung Wan Cultural Square, an open-air plaza located in the Central and Western District of Hong Kong Island. It is a gathering point for local communities and leisure activities in Sheung Wan. It is often used to hold various types of activities on holidays. The next stop is a classic Chinese Roasted Pork store in Sheung Wan - Sun Yuen Restaurant. Each type of roasted meat comes with a crispy layer of skin and a tender meat underneath. We will eat juicy Char Siu, the Cantonese BBQ pork, grilled in a large oven at over 300 degrees with honey. For digesting delicious food we ate just now, we will walk into the antique market and visit the historical heritage - Man Mo Temple. It's a historic Taoist temple, built between 1847 and 1862, dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. Keep on our food tour to a typical Cha Chaan Teng, a Hong Kong-style cafe, and enjoy local favorites like French toast, silk stocking milk tea, and Yuen Yeung (tea and coffee mix). You can also try the signature egg tarts with a crispy crust and soft custard filling at a famous shop on Lyndhurst Terrace. Then experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. Our guide will share with you some interesting facts about daily local life, surrounding shops, etc., giving you a full understanding of the local lifestyle. Finally, drinking with a refreshing local herbal tea, renowned for everything from detoxifying to all kinds of magical benefits. Then, enjoy a bowl of Michelin commanded Wonton noodles as a finish. 2:00 pm Tour ends Our food tour will finish at Central Market around 2pm. You can go on your exploration or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Know Before You Book Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. All food fee. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Hong Kong is famous for its delicious treats, earning it the title of "Food Paradise". We would go into the lively heart of Hong Kong – Central, for a fun 3-hour food adventure with a knowledgeable local guide. You can indulge in the area's most famous long-standing Hong Kong establishments, unique street snacks, and traditional drinks while exploring historic buildings and riding the city's oldest transport. Learn more about the food culture and unveil the secrets of this amazing city, from its past to its future. Hong Kong is famous for its delicious treats, earning it the title of "Food Paradise". We would go into the lively heart of Hong Kong – Central, for a fun 3-hour food adventure with a knowledgeable local guide. You can indulge in the area's most famous long-standing Hong Kong establishments, unique street snacks, and traditional drinks while exploring historic buildings and riding the city's oldest transport. Learn more about the food culture and unveil the secrets of this amazing city, from its past to its future. Tour Highlights Taste 10+ kinds of the most authentic traditional Hong Kong cuisine. Step into the bustling old Central district to learn about Hong Kong's real food culture. Visit local antique market and historical landmark - Man Mo Temple. Follow our passionate local foodie guide to have a memorable food tour. • Taste 10+ kinds of the most authentic traditional Hong Kong cuisine. • Step into the bustling old Central district to learn about Hong Kong's real food culture. • Visit local antique market and historical landmark - Man Mo Temple. • Follow our passionate local foodie guide to have a memorable food tour. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 11:00 am Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 11 AM, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Sheung Wan MTR Station Exit E2 (Street Level) Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 11:10 am Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Wing Lok Street to taste a range of signature dim sum, including Har Gau (crystal shrimp dumpling), Siu Mai (pork and shrimp dumpling), turnip cake, water chestnut cake, and even chicken feet. Try the exclusive Hong Kong street food, the egg waffle, and experience its incredible texture made from just eggs and flour. Then we'll go to the Sheung Wan Cultural Square, an open-air plaza located in the Central and Western District of Hong Kong Island. It is a gathering point for local communities and leisure activities in Sheung Wan. It is often used to hold various types of activities on holidays. The next stop is a classic Chinese Roasted Pork store in Sheung Wan - Sun Yuen Restaurant. Each type of roasted meat comes with a crispy layer of skin and a tender meat underneath. We will eat juicy Char Siu, the Cantonese BBQ pork, grilled in a large oven at over 300 degrees with honey. For digesting delicious food we ate just now, we will walk into the antique market and visit the historical heritage - Man Mo Temple. It's a historic Taoist temple, built between 1847 and 1862, dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. Keep on our food tour to a typical Cha Chaan Teng, a Hong Kong-style cafe, and enjoy local favorites like French toast, silk stocking milk tea, and Yuen Yeung (tea and coffee mix). You can also try the signature egg tarts with a crispy crust and soft custard filling at a famous shop on Lyndhurst Terrace. Then experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. Our guide will share with you some interesting facts about daily local life, surrounding shops, etc., giving you a full understanding of the local lifestyle. Finally, drinking with a refreshing local herbal tea, renowned for everything from detoxifying to all kinds of magical benefits. Then, enjoy a bowl of Michelin commanded Wonton noodles as a finish. 2:00 pm Tour ends Our food tour will finish at Central Market around 2pm. You can go on your exploration or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 11:00 am Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 11 AM, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Sheung Wan MTR Station Exit E2 (Street Level) Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 11:10 am Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Wing Lok Street to taste a range of signature dim sum, including Har Gau (crystal shrimp dumpling), Siu Mai (pork and shrimp dumpling), turnip cake, water chestnut cake, and even chicken feet. Try the exclusive Hong Kong street food, the egg waffle, and experience its incredible texture made from just eggs and flour. Then we'll go to the Sheung Wan Cultural Square, an open-air plaza located in the Central and Western District of Hong Kong Island. It is a gathering point for local communities and leisure activities in Sheung Wan. It is often used to hold various types of activities on holidays. The next stop is a classic Chinese Roasted Pork store in Sheung Wan - Sun Yuen Restaurant. Each type of roasted meat comes with a crispy layer of skin and a tender meat underneath. We will eat juicy Char Siu, the Cantonese BBQ pork, grilled in a large oven at over 300 degrees with honey. For digesting delicious food we ate just now, we will walk into the antique market and visit the historical heritage - Man Mo Temple. It's a historic Taoist temple, built between 1847 and 1862, dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. Keep on our food tour to a typical Cha Chaan Teng, a Hong Kong-style cafe, and enjoy local favorites like French toast, silk stocking milk tea, and Yuen Yeung (tea and coffee mix). You can also try the signature egg tarts with a crispy crust and soft custard filling at a famous shop on Lyndhurst Terrace. Then experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. Our guide will share with you some interesting facts about daily local life, surrounding shops, etc., giving you a full understanding of the local lifestyle. Finally, drinking with a refreshing local herbal tea, renowned for everything from detoxifying to all kinds of magical benefits. Then, enjoy a bowl of Michelin commanded Wonton noodles as a finish. 2:00 pm Tour ends Our food tour will finish at Central Market around 2pm. You can go on your exploration or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 11:00 am Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 11 AM, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Sheung Wan MTR Station Exit E2 (Street Level) Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 11:00 am Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 11 AM, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Sheung Wan MTR Station Exit E2 (Street Level) Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 11 AM, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. • Meeting Point: Sheung Wan MTR Station Exit E2 (Street Level) • Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 11:10 am Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Wing Lok Street to taste a range of signature dim sum, including Har Gau (crystal shrimp dumpling), Siu Mai (pork and shrimp dumpling), turnip cake, water chestnut cake, and even chicken feet. Try the exclusive Hong Kong street food, the egg waffle, and experience its incredible texture made from just eggs and flour. Then we'll go to the Sheung Wan Cultural Square, an open-air plaza located in the Central and Western District of Hong Kong Island. It is a gathering point for local communities and leisure activities in Sheung Wan. It is often used to hold various types of activities on holidays. The next stop is a classic Chinese Roasted Pork store in Sheung Wan - Sun Yuen Restaurant. Each type of roasted meat comes with a crispy layer of skin and a tender meat underneath. We will eat juicy Char Siu, the Cantonese BBQ pork, grilled in a large oven at over 300 degrees with honey. For digesting delicious food we ate just now, we will walk into the antique market and visit the historical heritage - Man Mo Temple. It's a historic Taoist temple, built between 1847 and 1862, dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. Keep on our food tour to a typical Cha Chaan Teng, a Hong Kong-style cafe, and enjoy local favorites like French toast, silk stocking milk tea, and Yuen Yeung (tea and coffee mix). You can also try the signature egg tarts with a crispy crust and soft custard filling at a famous shop on Lyndhurst Terrace. Then experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. Our guide will share with you some interesting facts about daily local life, surrounding shops, etc., giving you a full understanding of the local lifestyle. Finally, drinking with a refreshing local herbal tea, renowned for everything from detoxifying to all kinds of magical benefits. Then, enjoy a bowl of Michelin commanded Wonton noodles as a finish. 11:10 am Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Wing Lok Street to taste a range of signature dim sum, including Har Gau (crystal shrimp dumpling), Siu Mai (pork and shrimp dumpling), turnip cake, water chestnut cake, and even chicken feet. Try the exclusive Hong Kong street food, the egg waffle, and experience its incredible texture made from just eggs and flour. Then we'll go to the Sheung Wan Cultural Square, an open-air plaza located in the Central and Western District of Hong Kong Island. It is a gathering point for local communities and leisure activities in Sheung Wan. It is often used to hold various types of activities on holidays. The next stop is a classic Chinese Roasted Pork store in Sheung Wan - Sun Yuen Restaurant. Each type of roasted meat comes with a crispy layer of skin and a tender meat underneath. We will eat juicy Char Siu, the Cantonese BBQ pork, grilled in a large oven at over 300 degrees with honey. For digesting delicious food we ate just now, we will walk into the antique market and visit the historical heritage - Man Mo Temple. It's a historic Taoist temple, built between 1847 and 1862, dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. Keep on our food tour to a typical Cha Chaan Teng, a Hong Kong-style cafe, and enjoy local favorites like French toast, silk stocking milk tea, and Yuen Yeung (tea and coffee mix). You can also try the signature egg tarts with a crispy crust and soft custard filling at a famous shop on Lyndhurst Terrace. Then experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. Our guide will share with you some interesting facts about daily local life, surrounding shops, etc., giving you a full understanding of the local lifestyle. Finally, drinking with a refreshing local herbal tea, renowned for everything from detoxifying to all kinds of magical benefits. Then, enjoy a bowl of Michelin commanded Wonton noodles as a finish. Firstly, we will walk through Wing Lok Street to taste a range of signature dim sum, including Har Gau (crystal shrimp dumpling), Siu Mai (pork and shrimp dumpling), turnip cake, water chestnut cake, and even chicken feet. Try the exclusive Hong Kong street food, the egg waffle, and experience its incredible texture made from just eggs and flour. Then we'll go to the Sheung Wan Cultural Square, an open-air plaza located in the Central and Western District of Hong Kong Island. It is a gathering point for local communities and leisure activities in Sheung Wan. It is often used to hold various types of activities on holidays. The next stop is a classic Chinese Roasted Pork store in Sheung Wan - Sun Yuen Restaurant. Each type of roasted meat comes with a crispy layer of skin and a tender meat underneath. We will eat juicy Char Siu, the Cantonese BBQ pork, grilled in a large oven at over 300 degrees with honey. For digesting delicious food we ate just now, we will walk into the antique market and visit the historical heritage - Man Mo Temple. It's a historic Taoist temple, built between 1847 and 1862, dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. Keep on our food tour to a typical Cha Chaan Teng, a Hong Kong-style cafe, and enjoy local favorites like French toast, silk stocking milk tea, and Yuen Yeung (tea and coffee mix). You can also try the signature egg tarts with a crispy crust and soft custard filling at a famous shop on Lyndhurst Terrace. Then experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. Our guide will share with you some interesting facts about daily local life, surrounding shops, etc., giving you a full understanding of the local lifestyle. Finally, drinking with a refreshing local herbal tea, renowned for everything from detoxifying to all kinds of magical benefits. Then, enjoy a bowl of Michelin commanded Wonton noodles as a finish. 2:00 pm Tour ends Our food tour will finish at Central Market around 2pm. You can go on your exploration or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Our food tour will finish at Central Market around 2pm. You can go on your exploration or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Our food tour will finish at Central Market around 2pm. You can go on your exploration or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Know Before You Book Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. All food fee. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. All food fee. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. All food fee. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. • Professional English-speaking local guide. • All food fee. • Hotel pickup and drop-off. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 69 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 69 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 69 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20