ID: 4e19c5763abba9cf
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie (2026)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-guilin-guizhou-zhangjiajie.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie, located in bordering provinces, offer diverse and stunning natural landscapes and minority cultural experiences, from the idyllic karst mountains of Guilin to the ethnic diversity of Guizhou and the breathtaking sandstone pillars of Zhangjiajie (like Avatar Hallelujah Mountain). Based in Guilin, we are dedicated to creating tailor-made trips in China with 25 years of specialized experience. This guide will help you to plan a well-paced trip to these enchanting destinations, covering stay lengths, a suggested itinerary, transportation, costs, and recommended times to visit. • 1. How Many Days to Spend in Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie • 2. A Suggested Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie Itinerary • 3. How to Travel Between Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie • 4. Costs for Visiting Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie • 5. Best Times to Visit Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie How Many Days to Spend in Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie A classic trip to Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie typically requires 9–12 days. How long to stay in each destination depends on your travel pace and preferences. If your travel time is limited, we recommend allocating at least 3 days in each destination. A classic Guilin tour including the downtown area, Yangshuo, and Longsheng typically requires at least 4 days. Spend a full day in the downtown area, 2 days visiting Yangshuo, and one more day viewing the terraced fields in Longsheng. If your time is limited, you could consider skipping Longsheng and visiting the Tang'an terraced fields near Zhaoxing Dong Village instead. The terraced scenery in Tang'an is pleasant and it could be toured in just half a day, making it a convenient alternative. Explore more about the best attractions and activities in Guilin. Zhangjiajie: 3–4 Days Most visitors spend at least 3 days in Zhangjiajie visiting Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon, and Tianmen Mountain. It is recommended to allocate one day for each attraction area, and more for the national forest park. It takes a full day to witness the highlights in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park: Tianzi Mountain and Yuanjiajie (Avatar Hallelujah Mountain). Due to its large area, some visitors spend 2 or more days there for an in-depth travel experience to explore the whole forest park. Tap for more about planning a tour of Zhangjiajie. It requires at least 5 days for a well-rounded trip to Guizhou, including 1–2 days to appreciate the natural wonders, such as Huangguoshu Waterfall and Mount Fanjing, and 2–3 days to explore minority cultures and ancient towns, such as Zhenyuan Ancient Town and Miao/Dong villages in Kaili. If your time is limited, we recommend spending at least 3 days to visit the must-see Huangguoshu Waterfall and experience the ethnic culture. Discover more about charming Guizhou. 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery A Suggested 9-Day Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie Itinerary This 9-day itinerary includes the highlights of Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie, allowing you to experience the essence of each destination in a limited time without being too rushed. With 9 days in these destinations, you could admire spectacular and splendid landscapes, immerse yourself in idyllic and serene scenery, as well as experience authentic and vibrant minority cultures. • Day 1: Arrive in Zhangjiajie and head to your hotel in Wulingyuan Scenic Area. • Day 2: Zhangjiajie National Forest Park: Tianzi Mountain, Yuanjiajie (Avatar Hallelujah Mountain), and the Bailong Elevator • Day 3: Tianmen Mountain and Baofeng Lake • Day 4: Transfer to Guilin by bullet train and visit Elephant Trunk Hill. • Day 5: A Li River cruise to Yangshuo and a leisurely afternoon in the countryside. • Day 6: Visit Xianggongshan and transfer to Congjiang in Guizhou by bullet train. • Day 7: Explore Zhaoxing Dong Village and transfer to Guiyang by bullet train. • Day 8: Huangguoshu Waterfall and back to Guiyang • Day 9: Guiyang city tour and departure In Zhangjiajie, popular attractions often involve long lines, especially during peak travel seasons. To make your visit smoother, we could arrange VIP channels to the Bailong Elevator and Tianmen Mountain cableway, plus charter car services in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, helping you skip the long queues. If you're an active walker seeking hidden spots for unique views and photography, we recommend Sky Garden in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. It offers excellent viewpoints of sandstone pillars and Bailong Elevator. The reservoir behind Tianmen Mountain is also a quiet and serene location. The scenery is perfect for a bike ride with family or friends, and couples could enjoy a peaceful afternoon tea there. Admire the sandstone pillars and Bailong Elevator from Sky Garden in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park In Guilin, the conventional way to appreciate verdant karst peaks and the Li River is taking a Li River cruise. We particularly recommend the best cruise option (4-star) with a buffet and well-equipped facilities. For the best views, we usually try to book the upper deck seats for our guests. If you prefer hiking, you could consider doing 3 to 4 hours of hiking along the Li River to Yangshuo, which is also suitable for kids above 6 years old. To enjoy a panoramic view of the karst-peak scenery, based on our field visits in Guilin for the last 25 years, it is recommended to spend 15 to 30 minutes reaching the summit of Xianggong Hill, which is popular with locals but relatively unknown to foreign visitors. You could take in and capture stunning bird's-eye views of the winding Li River and lush green peaks. Enjoy a panoramic view from Xianggong Hill In Guizhou, there are many Dong and Miao villages. Zhaoxing Dong Village is relatively close to Guilin at just under an hour's journey by bullet train. It boasts large-scale terracing and you could enjoy more spectacular scenery alongside richer minority experiences. However, for travelers wishing to spend more time exploring a variety of ethnic villages, we recommend dedicating 2 days to visit the authentic villages around Kaili. In Zhaoxing Dong Village, you could admire large-scale Dong wooden architecture, immerse yourself in diverse ethnic activities, and visit idyllic terraced fields, all in one place. Take part in distinctive ethnic activities, such as long-table banquets, a welcome ceremony with rice wine, a bonfire party, bullfighting, etc. Additionally, enjoying some DIY fun with batik, tie-dyeing, and making silver ornaments is also popular with families with kids and couples. Tranquil Zhaoxing Dong Village at nightfall With us, your itinerary would be customized based on your preferences and desires. Please feel free to contact us with any requirements or interests you have. We're here to create a personalized and memorable travel experience for you and your family. How to Travel between Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie To travel between Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie, transportation options mainly include bullet trains and private cars. We do not recommend transfers by airplane since there are no direct flights connecting these destinations. Travel between Guilin and Guizhou As the capital of Guizhou, Guiyang serves as the province's main transportation hub. There are frequent bullet trains between Guilin and Guiyang, with travel times typically ranging from 2 to 3 hours, depending on the train station you choose. Travel between Guilin and Zhangjiajie The direct bullet train ride between Guilin and Zhangjiajie generally lasts about 7 hours, but there are fewer trains operating along this route. A private vehicle transfer between Guilin and Zhangjiajie takes about 8 hours and, on the way, it would pass through Fenghuang Ancient Town. If you want to visit this destination, a private vehicle would be the preferable choice. Travel between Guizhou and Zhangjiajie You would require a transfer since there are no direct bullet trains connecting Guizhou and Zhangjiajie (high-speed rail journeys need at least 4 hours including transfer time), while the direct normal trains take about 10 hours to arrive. If you don't want to spend time on a high-speed transfer trip or long train journey, a private vehicle is recommended. There are many attractions between Guiyang and Zhangjiajie, such as Mount Fanjing in Tongren, Zhenyuan Ancient Town, Kaili (minority villages), as well as Fenghuang Ancient Town in Hunan. You could visit these destinations along the way by private transport. Travel between Guizhou and Zhangjiajie by car If you prefer not to explore these attractions, opt for a direct private vehicle transfer of about 7 hours between Guiyang and Zhangjiajie, or consider Guilin as a transit destination between your trip in Guizhou and Zhangjiajie. Costs for Visiting Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie For a classic trip covering Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie, expect to spend about $180 to $220 per person per day. This budget includes accommodation (4–5-star), transportation (including bullet trains or private cars between cities and local transportation), lunch, entrance fees to attractions, and a local English-speaking guide. The expenditure across Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie is relatively similar, with the primary expenses revolving around hotels and transport. We would provide assistance in optimizing your trip, ensuring you get the most value out of your budget. Best Times to Visit Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie The best times to visit Guilin, Guizhou, and Zhangjiajie are autumn (September to mid-November, except for the National Day holidays from October 1st to 7th) and spring (late April to May, except for the May Day holiday from May 1st to 5th). These seasons provide pleasant scenery, few tourists, and comfortable temperatures ranging from 15–30°C (59–86°F) in the daytime. Autumn is better for outdoor activities since it is drier and has fewer rainy days than spring. Summer also offers splendid scenery. You could escape the heat in Guizhou and Zhangjiajie, and enjoy various water-based activities with your family in Guilin. However, daytime temperatures typically reach 35°C (95°F) in Guilin and downtown Zhangjiajie with intense sun and sudden rainstorms. You should also prepare for the large crowds, particularly during the summer vacations (July to August). You're advised to reserve your tickets, accommodation, and flights in advance. Particularly in peak seasons, traveling with a travel agency has more advantages than independent travel. We could lead you through VIP channels to avoid long queues, as well as flexibly arrange your trip to avoid the biggest crowds. December to March may be a good time to visit Guizhou with its moderate winter and to admire the potential rime and snowscapes in Zhangjiajie, but it is not the best time to visit Guilin. There is seldom any snowfall but there are strong chilly winds and damp weather in most parts of Guilin. In winter, daytime temperatures in Guilin are generally about 5 to 10°C (41–50°F), with temperatures rising slightly when it's sunny. Therefore, for touring Guilin in winter, it is recommended to choose December for more sunny days.