ID: 63285cb46d1faa7b
Title: Yangtze River Cruise Tours 2026
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tour/yangtze-river-tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The Yangtze River, China's mightiest river, is the world's most powerful river outside the tropics. Originating on the Tibetan Plateau, it travels 6,400 km (4,000 miles) to the East China Sea at Shanghai. It is prominent in China's history and economy, and also connects several major cities and spectacular landscapes of China. Enjoying a cruise on the Yangtze is the best way to explore this great river and the some of the best landscapes along the way. It is recommended to combine it with other popular destinations on your first China tour. If you are an expat in China, a Yangtze River tour is also a good idea for a short break. We are ready to offer the best suggestions and tips, arrange cruises and other bookings, transport, guiding, and support to ensure you a hassle-free Yangtze River tour. Popular Yangtze River Tours The itinerary below are suggested for a Yangtze River tour or a China tour including a Yangtze River Cruise. All of them can be customized according to your interested and schedule. Perfect Blend of History and Nature 17-Day Beijing, Xian, Yangtze, Zhangjiajie, Guilin and Shanghai Tour View More Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour 14-Day Beijing- Xian -Chengdu - Yangtze River -Shanghai View More Classic China and the Great Three Gorges 2-Week Hong Kong–Guilin–Chongqing–Yichang–Xian–Beijing View More Majestic China 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Yangtze River, and Shanghai Tour View More Leisure River Cruise Getaway 10-Day Beijing, Yangtze River Cruise, and Shanghai Tour View More Explore the Surreal Landscape 10-Day Yangtze River Cruise, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai Tour View More Grandest China Rivers 7-Day Guilin, Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More Mountain City and Gorgeous Gorges 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us Tips for Yangtze River Tours Expand All 1.Yangtze River Cruise Routes There are four Yangtze Cruise routes (in order of popularity): From Chongqing to Yichang (downstream) takes 3 nights and 4 days. From Yichang to Chongqing (upstream) takes 4 nights and 5 days. From Chongqing to Shanghai (downstream) take 6 nights and 7 days. From Shanghai to Chongqing (upstream) takes 8 nights and 9 days. The highlights lie between Chongqing and Yichang. Read more 2. The Best Times for a Yangtze River Tour Yangtze River cruises are possible all the year round. The high season is from April to October, when the prices of cruise tickets are a little higher than in colder months. The middle season months (April, May, September, and October) are often recommended for the most comfortable temperatures and gorgeous gorges scenery of flowering hills or fall hues. July and August are the rainy season months. The water level is highest and the water color could be yellow. However, in this season, the view from the Three Gorges Dam is more spectacular because of the awesome flood discharge. As the passenger capacity on cruise ships is fixed, the Yangtze River cruise ship experience will not be affected by crowds, even on public holidays in China (particularly Labor Day and Chinese National Day), though there may be many more tourists at shore excursion sites. Read more 3. How to Connect a Yangtze Cruise with Your China Tour Chongqing, Yichang, and Shanghai are the port cities for Yangtze River cruises. Chongqing and Shanghai are the major cities of China. They can be reached easily by flights or bullet trains. Chongqing is not far by flight or bullet train from Xi'an, Chengdu, and Guilin, which are popular China tour destinations. Shanghai is normally is the last stop on a China tour, so that's ideal if you want a long downstream cruise. Yichang is a small city. There are fewer flights and bullet trains to and from it. It is more difficult to connect with other popular destinations, except Zhangjiajie by 5-hour train. Don't worry about the connections if you travel with China Highlights. Just tell us the places you would like to include in your tour and leave the logistics to your travel advisor. Whatever else you want in a China tour, we'll ensure you can enjoy a well-designed once-in-a-life-time Yangtze River tour. The Yangtze River, China's mightiest river, is the world's most powerful river outside the tropics. Originating on the Tibetan Plateau, it travels 6,400 km (4,000 miles) to the East China Sea at Shanghai. It is prominent in China's history and economy, and also connects several major cities and spectacular landscapes of China. Enjoying a cruise on the Yangtze is the best way to explore this great river and the some of the best landscapes along the way. It is recommended to combine it with other popular destinations on your first China tour. If you are an expat in China, a Yangtze River tour is also a good idea for a short break. We are ready to offer the best suggestions and tips, arrange cruises and other bookings, transport, guiding, and support to ensure you a hassle-free Yangtze River tour. Popular Yangtze River Tours The itinerary below are suggested for a Yangtze River tour or a China tour including a Yangtze River Cruise. All of them can be customized according to your interested and schedule. Perfect Blend of History and Nature 17-Day Beijing, Xian, Yangtze, Zhangjiajie, Guilin and Shanghai Tour View More Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour 14-Day Beijing- Xian -Chengdu - Yangtze River -Shanghai View More Classic China and the Great Three Gorges 2-Week Hong Kong–Guilin–Chongqing–Yichang–Xian–Beijing View More Majestic China 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Yangtze River, and Shanghai Tour View More Perfect Blend of History and Nature 17-Day Beijing, Xian, Yangtze, Zhangjiajie, Guilin and Shanghai Tour View More Perfect Blend of History and Nature 17-Day Beijing, Xian, Yangtze, Zhangjiajie, Guilin and Shanghai Tour View More Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour 14-Day Beijing- Xian -Chengdu - Yangtze River -Shanghai View More Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour 14-Day Beijing- Xian -Chengdu - Yangtze River -Shanghai View More Classic China and the Great Three Gorges 2-Week Hong Kong–Guilin–Chongqing–Yichang–Xian–Beijing View More Classic China and the Great Three Gorges 2-Week Hong Kong–Guilin–Chongqing–Yichang–Xian–Beijing View More Majestic China 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Yangtze River, and Shanghai Tour View More 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Yangtze River, and Shanghai Tour View More Leisure River Cruise Getaway 10-Day Beijing, Yangtze River Cruise, and Shanghai Tour View More Explore the Surreal Landscape 10-Day Yangtze River Cruise, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai Tour View More Grandest China Rivers 7-Day Guilin, Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More Mountain City and Gorgeous Gorges 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More Leisure River Cruise Getaway 10-Day Beijing, Yangtze River Cruise, and Shanghai Tour View More Leisure River Cruise Getaway 10-Day Beijing, Yangtze River Cruise, and Shanghai Tour View More Explore the Surreal Landscape 10-Day Yangtze River Cruise, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai Tour View More Explore the Surreal Landscape 10-Day Yangtze River Cruise, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai Tour View More Grandest China Rivers 7-Day Guilin, Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More Grandest China Rivers 7-Day Guilin, Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More Mountain City and Gorgeous Gorges 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More Mountain City and Gorgeous Gorges 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Tips for Yangtze River Tours Expand All 1.Yangtze River Cruise Routes There are four Yangtze Cruise routes (in order of popularity): From Chongqing to Yichang (downstream) takes 3 nights and 4 days. From Yichang to Chongqing (upstream) takes 4 nights and 5 days. From Chongqing to Shanghai (downstream) take 6 nights and 7 days. From Shanghai to Chongqing (upstream) takes 8 nights and 9 days. The highlights lie between Chongqing and Yichang. Read more 2. The Best Times for a Yangtze River Tour Yangtze River cruises are possible all the year round. The high season is from April to October, when the prices of cruise tickets are a little higher than in colder months. The middle season months (April, May, September, and October) are often recommended for the most comfortable temperatures and gorgeous gorges scenery of flowering hills or fall hues. July and August are the rainy season months. The water level is highest and the water color could be yellow. However, in this season, the view from the Three Gorges Dam is more spectacular because of the awesome flood discharge. As the passenger capacity on cruise ships is fixed, the Yangtze River cruise ship experience will not be affected by crowds, even on public holidays in China (particularly Labor Day and Chinese National Day), though there may be many more tourists at shore excursion sites. Read more 3. How to Connect a Yangtze Cruise with Your China Tour Chongqing, Yichang, and Shanghai are the port cities for Yangtze River cruises. Chongqing and Shanghai are the major cities of China. They can be reached easily by flights or bullet trains. Chongqing is not far by flight or bullet train from Xi'an, Chengdu, and Guilin, which are popular China tour destinations. Shanghai is normally is the last stop on a China tour, so that's ideal if you want a long downstream cruise. Yichang is a small city. There are fewer flights and bullet trains to and from it. It is more difficult to connect with other popular destinations, except Zhangjiajie by 5-hour train. Don't worry about the connections if you travel with China Highlights. Just tell us the places you would like to include in your tour and leave the logistics to your travel advisor. Whatever else you want in a China tour, we'll ensure you can enjoy a well-designed once-in-a-life-time Yangtze River tour. 1.Yangtze River Cruise Routes There are four Yangtze Cruise routes (in order of popularity): From Chongqing to Yichang (downstream) takes 3 nights and 4 days. From Yichang to Chongqing (upstream) takes 4 nights and 5 days. From Chongqing to Shanghai (downstream) take 6 nights and 7 days. From Shanghai to Chongqing (upstream) takes 8 nights and 9 days. The highlights lie between Chongqing and Yichang. Read more There are four Yangtze Cruise routes (in order of popularity): • From Chongqing to Yichang (downstream) takes 3 nights and 4 days. • From Yichang to Chongqing (upstream) takes 4 nights and 5 days. • From Chongqing to Shanghai (downstream) take 6 nights and 7 days. • From Shanghai to Chongqing (upstream) takes 8 nights and 9 days. The highlights lie between Chongqing and Yichang. Read more 2. The Best Times for a Yangtze River Tour Yangtze River cruises are possible all the year round. The high season is from April to October, when the prices of cruise tickets are a little higher than in colder months. The middle season months (April, May, September, and October) are often recommended for the most comfortable temperatures and gorgeous gorges scenery of flowering hills or fall hues. July and August are the rainy season months. The water level is highest and the water color could be yellow. However, in this season, the view from the Three Gorges Dam is more spectacular because of the awesome flood discharge. As the passenger capacity on cruise ships is fixed, the Yangtze River cruise ship experience will not be affected by crowds, even on public holidays in China (particularly Labor Day and Chinese National Day), though there may be many more tourists at shore excursion sites. Read more Yangtze River cruises are possible all the year round. The high season is from April to October, when the prices of cruise tickets are a little higher than in colder months. The middle season months (April, May, September, and October) are often recommended for the most comfortable temperatures and gorgeous gorges scenery of flowering hills or fall hues. July and August are the rainy season months. The water level is highest and the water color could be yellow. However, in this season, the view from the Three Gorges Dam is more spectacular because of the awesome flood discharge. As the passenger capacity on cruise ships is fixed, the Yangtze River cruise ship experience will not be affected by crowds, even on public holidays in China (particularly Labor Day and Chinese National Day), though there may be many more tourists at shore excursion sites. Read more 3. How to Connect a Yangtze Cruise with Your China Tour Chongqing, Yichang, and Shanghai are the port cities for Yangtze River cruises. Chongqing and Shanghai are the major cities of China. They can be reached easily by flights or bullet trains. Chongqing is not far by flight or bullet train from Xi'an, Chengdu, and Guilin, which are popular China tour destinations. Shanghai is normally is the last stop on a China tour, so that's ideal if you want a long downstream cruise. Yichang is a small city. There are fewer flights and bullet trains to and from it. It is more difficult to connect with other popular destinations, except Zhangjiajie by 5-hour train. Don't worry about the connections if you travel with China Highlights. Just tell us the places you would like to include in your tour and leave the logistics to your travel advisor. Whatever else you want in a China tour, we'll ensure you can enjoy a well-designed once-in-a-life-time Yangtze River tour. Chongqing, Yichang, and Shanghai are the port cities for Yangtze River cruises. Chongqing and Shanghai are the major cities of China. They can be reached easily by flights or bullet trains. Chongqing is not far by flight or bullet train from Xi'an, Chengdu, and Guilin, which are popular China tour destinations. Shanghai is normally is the last stop on a China tour, so that's ideal if you want a long downstream cruise. Yichang is a small city. There are fewer flights and bullet trains to and from it. It is more difficult to connect with other popular destinations, except Zhangjiajie by 5-hour train. Don't worry about the connections if you travel with China Highlights. Just tell us the places you would like to include in your tour and leave the logistics to your travel advisor. Whatever else you want in a China tour, we'll ensure you can enjoy a well-designed once-in-a-life-time Yangtze River tour.