ID: 2db6ec085f40372f
Title: Chaozhou and Shantou Top 12 Things to Do
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chaozhou-shantou/top-things-to-do.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Besides all the amazing food, what else is worth checking out in Chaoshan? This article's got you covered! You'll discover the top 12 things to do in Chaozhou and Shantou, including food, culture, history, natural sights, and handmade experiences. Chaozhou is known for its ancient buildings and cultural experiences, while the highlights of Shantou are sea views, various Chinese-Western buildings, and food streets everywhere. • 1. Guangji Bridge • 2. Memorial Archway Street • 3. Little Garden Park • 4. Nan'ao Island • 5. Chen Cihong's Former Residence • 6. Queshi Scenic Area • 7. Son-in-Law Xu's Mansion • 8. Ji Lue Huang Ancestral Hall • 9. Kaiyuan Temple • 10. Phoenix Mountain • 11. Stone Battery Park • 12. Zhanglin Ancient Port 1. Guangji Bridge: Walk Across a Bridge of Boats Guangji Bridge in Chaozhou It's the most iconic landmark in Chaozhou. During the day, you can walk across the floating boat section. At dusk, witness the floating boats being removed (around 5:30 pm, or 4:30 pm from November to January). The night view of Guangji Bridge and the nearby Guangji Tower is beautiful. Around 8 p.m., you can catch a light show. Guangji Tower and the city wall at night I recommend this visiting route without detour: Han Wen Gong Temple → Guangji Bridge → Guangji Tower. Guangji Bridge sits right in between the other two, and from Guangji Tower, you can walk straight into Memorial Archway Street in the ancient city. Best photo spots for Guangji Bridge: stand on the bridge for a frontal shot, walk along the riverside corridor for a side angle, or head to Hanwengong Temple for a distant view. 2. Memorial Archway Street: Enjoy Food Tour and Shopping Memorial Archway Street in Chaozhou Ancient City For foodies, photo lovers, and shopping enthusiasts, don't miss this lively street. It's packed with food stalls, shops, Teochew logo walls, and local teahouses to enjoy both congou tea and Teochew opera. It's great for a stroll both during the day and at night. For food, I'd recommend the side roads around Memorial Archway Street instead of its main street. There are more choices and better prices. I tried some local snacks like oyster omelette and traditional sugar onion candy, all super tasty. An old Teochew house on one of the side alleys I also loved the side alleys nearby, whether it's the popular Jiadi Alley or the lesser-known ones. They're full of a local and authentic vibe with traditional Teochew houses, allowing visitors to have a glimpse into the local lifestyle. 3. Small Park: Find Good Street Snacks & Photo Spots The most iconic Zhongshan Pavilion in Shantou Small Park It's a must-visit in Shantou. This old arcade-style area gives you a movie vibe, and you can spot many old buildings, street food, local souvenirs, and photo corners. Many popular photos of Shantou you see online are taken here, especially the red pavilion and walls with "Shantou". Actually, you don't need to queue at Shantou Hostel to punch the card of that big red logo, as there are also several logo walls next to the red pavilion. It takes 1-2 hours to walk around. I went there around 5 p.m., just in time to see the lights turn on and start exploring the food stalls. There are many food shops around, not just on Zhenbang Road. You can wander the surrounding area to find more. Recommended Tour: 3-Day Chaozhou and Shantou Tour Recommended Tour: 3-Day Chaozhou and Shantou Tour 4. Nan'ao Island: Take a Scenic Coastal Road Trip If you love island scenery, Nan'ao is a great place for sightseeing, relaxing, and taking photos. It's only a 40-minute drive from downtown Shantou. A day trip is enough to see the highlights, such as lighthouses, beaches, popular social-media photo walls, windmill seas, and rocky shores. If you're short on time, a half-day tour by car is also possible, taking about 1.5 hours around the island without getting off. A photo spot on Haiquan Bay in Nan'ao Island You can get to the island by private car, public bus, or ferry. A private car is the most convenient. You'll cross the scenic Nan'ao Bridge and won't need to worry about transport on the island. Just avoid peak holidays, as the traffic jams can stretch for hours. In my experience in Nan'ao, I left around 9:30 am, and back to the hotel in Shantou by 4 pm. More recommended to visit on sunny days, as the sea I saw on a cloudy day was gray-green. 5. Chen Cihong's Former Residence: Discover the Retro Nanyang-Style Mansion Chen Cihong's Former Residence in Shantou If you're into vintage vibe and retro architecture appreciation, it's ideal to spend 2-3 hours visiting Chen Cihong Residence. The beautiful blend of Teochew and Western-style design and layout is what I loved the most, perfect for taking photos. Yingge dance shows (typically at 10:30 am every day) and themed role-playing games are also the highlights here. Handicraft activities are available too, but more as a side experience. Chen Cihong's Former Residence vs Chaozhou Master Garden: If you're mainly interested in handicrafts, Chaozhou Master Garden is a better choice. It offers newer settings, various displays and DIY options. But I recommend visiting both, one for architectural art and Yingge dance admiration, while the other for traditional crafts appreciation and handicraft experiences. Chen Cihong's Former Residence vs Chaozhou Master Garden: If you're mainly interested in handicrafts, Chaozhou Master Garden is a better choice. It offers newer settings, various displays and DIY options. But I recommend visiting both, one for architectural art and Yingge dance admiration, while the other for traditional crafts appreciation and handicraft experiences. 6. Queshi Scenic Area: Overlook the Inner Bay and City This peaceful hill is great for you to enjoy views over Shantou's old town and inner bay. There's a chairlift for going up and down, and even a slide for coming down (kids might love it). Or you can take 15-30 minutes to hike up. But there are still some steps to climb, so it's not so great for seniors with mobility issues. Alternatively, you can head to Zhongshan Park, which is also scenic but wheelchair-friendly. You can get there by car or local ferry. Driving is better as it takes you right to the gate, while the ferry still requires a 10-15 minute walk after landing. I'd recommend driving to and from via the sea bridge, or driving there and taking the ferry back. Local regular ferry in Shantou Ferry tips： There are two types of ferries—regular and sightseeing. Take the regular one if you're heading to the island. The sightseeing ferries would just cruise about 1 hour around the inner bay without any halfway stops. It runs twice daily, at 5:30 PM and 8:30 PM. If you're up for it, the 5:30 ride is great for catching the sunset. Ferry tips： There are two types of ferries—regular and sightseeing. Take the regular one if you're heading to the island. The sightseeing ferries would just cruise about 1 hour around the inner bay without any halfway stops. It runs twice daily, at 5:30 PM and 8:30 PM. If you're up for it, the 5:30 ride is great for catching the sunset. 7. Son-in-Law Xu's Mansion: Explore Traditional Teochew-Style Houses Son-in-Law Xu's Mansion in Chaozhou Ancient Town If you're interested in old houses and local culture, you'll love this place. It's very different from Chen Cihong's Former Residence, showcasing older and more traditional Teochew-style homes. Apart from the house structure, I was most drawn to the local wedding customs, old household items, and the story of Xu and the princess. But it's not so wheelchair-friendly due to the lots of tall thresholds. And a guide is also highly recommended, to help you understand not just the building itself, but also the stories and culture behind it. It takes about 1 hour to visit. 8. Ji Lue Huang Ancestral Hall: Admire Carvings Art A corner under the roof of Ji Lue Huang Ancestral Hall The highlights in this small place are the hundred-year-old wood or stone carvings. While looking up under the eaves, you'll find many detailed and vivid scenes from myths and classic stories presented by the carvings. I went on a rainy day, it got dim inside, and I couldn't see all the carving details clearly. So visiting on a sunny day is better. A guide would help you better understand what the carvings show. Otherwise, it may be boring to visit. If you have any needs, feel free to contact us. China Highlights has been customizing China tours for 26 years. We can help you create a personalized Chaozhou and Shantou itinerary, whether it's for a family trip or a root-seeking tour. If you have any needs, feel free to contact us. China Highlights has been customizing China tours for 26 years. We can help you create a personalized Chaozhou and Shantou itinerary, whether it's for a family trip or a root-seeking tour. 9. Kaiyuan Temple: Capture Vibrant Colors and Pictures It's worth spending 30 minutes to an hour visiting this temple. You'll find beautiful roofs with colorful porcelain carvings, peaceful garden landscapes, and traditional oil-paper lanterns. All these are full of Teochew charm and perfect for photos. My favorite parts were the bamboo-lined alley, the iconic red wall with writing on it, and the heart-shaped Bodhi tree in the courtyard. They were great for photos. You could find them easily on the left after entering the temple gate. 10. Phoenix Mountain: Immerse in a Refreshing Tea World Phoenix Mountain is the origin of a famous tea, Phoenix Dan Cong. For tea lovers, it's a great place to visit, about a 1½-hour drive from Chaozhou Ancient City. You can visit the Tea Museum, walk through tea gardens, try picking tea leaves, watch tea-making in villages, or stop by local homes to taste tea. If you want to buy some tea, I recommend bringing someone who knows tea to avoid overpaying. It's better to charter a car for visiting, as the place is quite far and hard to get a taxi back. 11. Stone Battery Park: Visit the Colosseum-Style Building For history and architecture lovers, this hidden park in Shantou may on your interest. It features a Colosseum-like structure and wave-shaped stairs, and the green lawns, windmills, and the distant sea view are also great for scenery. 12. Zhanglin Ancient Port: Explore the History of Shantou's Port If you're interested in Shantou's port and seafaring past, Zhanglin Ancient Port is worth a half-day visit. It's in Chenghai District, about a 40-minute drive from Shantou downtown. You can combine Chen Cihong's Former Residence with it, as they are quite close to each other. There are also many traditional Chaoshan-style houses. Some old buildings are also linked to Singaporean Chinese, and you might feel familiar if you're from Singapore. If you love taking photos, try dressing in something vintage or artsy. The old streets, red-headed boats, and historic buildings here make a perfect retro backdrop, and it's not touristy at all.