ID: 49501d782d3f13cc
Title: China Weather in July 2026: How to Avoid Heat and Crowds
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/weather/july.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

July is scorching and humid throughout most of China — it's the hottest month. In some places, it is also the rainiest month. July is nevertheless a good time for families to travel. Many customers plan their family tours during their children's summer vacations. Read on to find out how China's July climate affects tourism and our travel suggestions. • July Weather Conditions • Weather in North China • Weather in East China • Weather in South China • Weather in West China • Top 6 Places to Visit in July • Crowds and Costs China Weather in July: Overview • Average daily temperature range: 21–30°C (70–86°F), hot • Average rainfall: 156 mm (6 in), high • Average rainy days: 10 • Average sunny days: 21 Weather in North China (Beijing, Xi'an...) North China is hot and rainy in July, with July and August being the rainiest months. Avoid the afternoon thunderstorms! In Beijing, the average temperature is 22–31°C (72–88°F) and there are typically 14 days of rain amounting to 179 mm (7 in) in July. When planning your tour, you are recommended to arrange outdoor activities in the morning and late afternoon and visit indoor places that offer air-conditioning in the middle of the day. A night tour would be cooler and would offer you a unique experience, such as a night tour to the Simatai section of the Great Wall. Also, don't fully schedule each day to allow for flexibility in case unexpected rain upsets your plans. Clothing: Wear T-shirts, light clothing, and shorts. Weather in East China (Shanghai, Hangzhou...) East China also experiences its highest yearly temperatures, but, unlike much of China, the rainfall slackens. It is a good time to visit mountains, such as the Yellow Mountains, where it is cooler. The Yellow Mountains have a cooler temperature, averaging 17–22°C (63–72°F). In hot Shanghai, there is much less rainfall than in June or August. Most of the rain falls in early July. Shanghai averages 25–32°C (77–90°F) with typically 13 days (138 mm, 5 in) of rain in July. Other eastern cities, such as Hangzhou, are similar. Clothing: Wear a thin water-resistant jacket or rain gear when needed, but generally light clothing, and shorts. 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders Weather in South China (Guilin, Hong Kong...) South China is hot and humid in July — be prepared for the tropical weather. Sometimes, typhoons will bring heavy rain to South China. Guilin averages 26–33°C (79–91°F) with typically 16 days of rain (201 mm, 8 in) in July. Temperatures in cities further south, such as Guangzhou and Hong Kong, are higher still. Hong Kong is hot and rainy, and there are occasional downpours or tropical storms. Clothing: Wear shorts, light clothes, and rain gear. 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm Weather in West China (Chengdu, Tibet, Yunnan...) West China will have a better climate in July for traveling. The mountains and valleys of Yunnan Province and Sichuan Province benefit from pleasant weather — it is cool or warm depending on the altitude. Tibet has more comfortable weather in July than other areas, averaging 12–22°C (54–72°F) and only moderate rainfall. Clothing: T-shirts, shirts, shorts, or jeans are fine to wear. Take some rain gear too. For Lhasa, dress in layers and take your coat and sunglasses. 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour Top 6 Places to Visit in China in July The cool mountainous areas and high elevations are always good destinations to avoid the summer heat. July also lends itself to plenty of fun outdoor activities, such as paddleboarding. 1. The Yellow Mountains The Yellow Mountains (Huangshan) are a good place to avoid the summer heat that's experienced in the cities. Hiking through the scenic trails, you could gaze at mystical clouds that often surround the peaks. Catching a sunrise or sunset from the mountains is an unforgettable experience and a must-do activity. After a hiking trip on the mountains, you can descend to visit the ancient villages. Roam or bike through the villages to immerse yourself in the pristine beauty of nature blended with well-preserved Anhui-style architecture. You could also participate in the creation of ancient local crafts, such as making a Chinese lantern. July provides pleasant weather for outdoor excursions and it's a fantastic time to explore the magnificent Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. Enjoy the "floating" mountains depicted in the movie Avatar along the walking trail in the cool valley. Take a cable car to appreciate the stunning views from Tianzi Mountain and venture onto the world's longest glass bridge for a thrilling experience. 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery July is an excellent time for outdoor activities in Guilin. Embark on a Li River cruise, and meander through the surreal karst mountains and lush countryside. Cycling around the scenic countryside of Yangshuo is a popular choice for families. There are also many cool and fun outdoor activities that are perfect for families with children. Delight in the exhilarating experience of stand-up paddleboarding (SUP) while splashing in the crystal-clear waters of its scenic rivers. If your kids like something adventurous, take a family adventure to an undeveloped cave to discover the amazing stalactites and stalagmites. 11-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai private tour plan Family Happiness 11-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai private tour plan Family Happiness 11-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai private tour plan Family Happiness 4. Yangtze River Cruise Taking a Yangtze River Cruise could be an excellent way to escape the heat and avoid large crowds. Enjoy the mesmerizing views of the Three Gorges as you cruise along the majestic river. Explore the Three Gorges Dam, the world's largest hydroelectric project, and delve into its history and impressive engineering. With the relaxing pace, wide range of onboard activities, and exciting shore excursions, it provides a perfect option for a multi-generational family's summer vacation. 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu –Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Land of Pandas 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu –Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Land of Pandas 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu –Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Land of Pandas Tibet's summer is cool and stunning. The blue mirror-like lakes are shining between snowy mountains and grasslands. You could admire the blooming wildflowers across the expansive grasslands, breathe in the fresh mountain air, and experience a local Tibetan family's traditional home and engage in their farming activities. Go to the Potala Palace and discover the supreme significance of the palace to the Tibetans. Discover stories of lamas in monasteries and receive a most sacred blessing in the highest monastery in the world. Leave your footprints at Everest Base Camp, immersing yourself in the unique charm and profound religious atmosphere of the region. 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Beautiful China with Holy Tibet In July, Jiuzhaigou is adorned with vibrant colors, surrounded by lush green vegetation. Take a leisurely hike through the picturesque trails, keeping your eyes peeled for wildlife and the iconic blue, green, and turquoise lakes that reflect the surrounding mountains. Marvel at the majesty of the Nuorilang Waterfall, one of the largest waterfalls in China. Jiuzhai Valley is a perfect retreat for those seeking tranquility, natural beauty, and serenity. 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour Unveil Ancient Towns and Nature's Wonders 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour Unveil Ancient Towns and Nature's Wonders 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour Unveil Ancient Towns and Nature's Wonders Costs and Crowds in July July is a peak travel month in China. As the summer vacation begins for students and families, the demand for travel surges, leading to increased prices for flights and accommodation. Crowds are expected in attractions, especially in popular destinations. To manage costs and crowds in July, consider planning your trip well in advance, securing bookings early. See How to Plan a Summer Trip to China. Tips for Avoiding Crowds We've gathered these insights from the positive feedback and satisfaction expressed by our valued guests. 1. Rise and shine early: Contrary to what you may think, waking up early isn't as tiring as it seems. By doing so, you can enjoy quieter sights in the morning and even stumble upon unexpected surprises that you wouldn't normally encounter. 2. Utilize VIP access: Many attractions offer VIP services during peak times to help bypass long queues. Our travel consultants and tour guides are well-informed about such services and will promptly arrange them for you, ensuring you save time and enjoy a hassle-free experience. 3. Explore alternative attractions: Instead of crowded and hard-to-book attractions, consider visiting alternative sites that offer similar experiences. For example, if booking Shaanxi History Museum in Xi'an proves challenging during the peak season, Xi'an Museum or Shaanxi Archaeology Museum can be excellent alternatives. If you have plans to visit China during the summer vacation, feel free to contact us to create a hassle-free itinerary based on your requirements. Recommended China Tours All of our itineraries can be personalized for you and your family's travel goals, available travel days and dates, and other requirements. Just contact us. • Land of Pandas — 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour • Classic and Natural China — 15-Day Shanghai – Beijing – Hong Kong – Guangzhou – Zhangjiajie Tour • Classic China Nature and Culture — 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Monthly Weather and Travel Information for China • China Weather in January • China Weather in February • China Weather in March • China Weather in April • China Weather in May • China Weather in June • China Weather in July • China Weather in August • China Weather in September • China Weather in October • China Weather in November • China Weather in December