ID: 52169a925e4243b2
Title: Shanghai xiaolongbao cooking class
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/shanghai/3-hour-xiaolongbao-cooking-class.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Known as soup buns or soup dumplings in English, this Shanghai dish is beloved throughout China and the world. Taking this 3-hour experience, you will not only eat this kind of tasty snacks but also learn how to make it by yourself. No worry if you don't understand Mandarin, this cooking class is conducted by an English-speaking chef who is a true foodies and a fan of cooking. Teaching you to cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways, learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Finally, enjoy our hand-made xiaolongbaos party together! Tour Highlights Kitchen is located at Xintiandi area which is Shanghai's most integrated area with respect to old and new. English-speaking chef will tell you why the soup dumpling called "Xiaolongbao" and the story behind this snack. You can learn how to put the soup into the Xiaolongbao. All the materials needed in the cooking class are included. Indulge in your own handmade xiaolongbao feast, the chef also will teach you the correct way to eat it. The Design of the Activity Skilled Chef: Certified senior Chinese Dim Sum chef with six years of teaching experience Location: The kitchen is well-found where is in the Xintiandi area of city center Trippest Shanghai Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email address or mobile number is correct. 10:00 AM - 11:00 AMMeet the chef at the kitchen and introduction The class will begin at 10:00AM in the morning, the chef will be waiting you at the kitchen, you need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then the chef will introduce the cooking culture, the history of Xiaolongbao and local ingredient to you. Cooking class Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 11:00 AM – 12:00 AMCooking session You'll learn how to make both dough and filling with fragrant Chinese spices in a class where I also reveal how soup can be wrapped in a xiaolongbao, which is a type of dumpling. You will cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways(steaming or frying), and you will learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Making the shape of xiaolongbao Kind chef is teaching students in the class Lovely kids interest in making Xiaolongbao Frying xiaolongbao, also called"Shengjianbao" Taking a picture of your Xiaolongbao 12:00 AM — 13:00 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, let's enjoy the party of your hand-made Xiaolongbao with delicious saurce together! Unlike dumplings or baozi, this little bundle of joy contains delicious soup inside. An elusive perfect xiaolongbao has a delicate skin surrounding the savoury soup that bursts open with the first bite! Eating your hand-made xiaolongbao Enjoy the party together! Price Includes: Cooking class fee. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Excludes: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour How to get the detail address of the kitchen? The kitchen is at Huangpu Qu, Shanghai Shi, China, where is near Xintiandi commercial area. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. Check Availability For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 68 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Known as soup buns or soup dumplings in English, this Shanghai dish is beloved throughout China and the world. Taking this 3-hour experience, you will not only eat this kind of tasty snacks but also learn how to make it by yourself. No worry if you don't understand Mandarin, this cooking class is conducted by an English-speaking chef who is a true foodies and a fan of cooking. Teaching you to cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways, learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Finally, enjoy our hand-made xiaolongbaos party together! Known as soup buns or soup dumplings in English, this Shanghai dish is beloved throughout China and the world. Taking this 3-hour experience, you will not only eat this kind of tasty snacks but also learn how to make it by yourself. No worry if you don't understand Mandarin, this cooking class is conducted by an English-speaking chef who is a true foodies and a fan of cooking. Teaching you to cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways, learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Finally, enjoy our hand-made xiaolongbaos party together! Tour Highlights Kitchen is located at Xintiandi area which is Shanghai's most integrated area with respect to old and new. English-speaking chef will tell you why the soup dumpling called "Xiaolongbao" and the story behind this snack. You can learn how to put the soup into the Xiaolongbao. All the materials needed in the cooking class are included. Indulge in your own handmade xiaolongbao feast, the chef also will teach you the correct way to eat it. • Kitchen is located at Xintiandi area which is Shanghai's most integrated area with respect to old and new. • English-speaking chef will tell you why the soup dumpling called "Xiaolongbao" and the story behind this snack. You can learn how to put the soup into the Xiaolongbao. • All the materials needed in the cooking class are included. • Indulge in your own handmade xiaolongbao feast, the chef also will teach you the correct way to eat it. The Design of the Activity Skilled Chef: Certified senior Chinese Dim Sum chef with six years of teaching experience Location: The kitchen is well-found where is in the Xintiandi area of city center Trippest Shanghai Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. The Design of the Activity • Skilled Chef: Certified senior Chinese Dim Sum chef with six years of teaching experience • Location: The kitchen is well-found where is in the Xintiandi area of city center • Trippest Shanghai Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice • Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email address or mobile number is correct. 10:00 AM - 11:00 AMMeet the chef at the kitchen and introduction The class will begin at 10:00AM in the morning, the chef will be waiting you at the kitchen, you need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then the chef will introduce the cooking culture, the history of Xiaolongbao and local ingredient to you. Cooking class Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 11:00 AM – 12:00 AMCooking session You'll learn how to make both dough and filling with fragrant Chinese spices in a class where I also reveal how soup can be wrapped in a xiaolongbao, which is a type of dumpling. You will cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways(steaming or frying), and you will learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Making the shape of xiaolongbao Kind chef is teaching students in the class Lovely kids interest in making Xiaolongbao Frying xiaolongbao, also called"Shengjianbao" Taking a picture of your Xiaolongbao 12:00 AM — 13:00 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, let's enjoy the party of your hand-made Xiaolongbao with delicious saurce together! Unlike dumplings or baozi, this little bundle of joy contains delicious soup inside. An elusive perfect xiaolongbao has a delicate skin surrounding the savoury soup that bursts open with the first bite! Eating your hand-made xiaolongbao Enjoy the party together! Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email address or mobile number is correct. 10:00 AM - 11:00 AMMeet the chef at the kitchen and introduction The class will begin at 10:00AM in the morning, the chef will be waiting you at the kitchen, you need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then the chef will introduce the cooking culture, the history of Xiaolongbao and local ingredient to you. Cooking class Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 11:00 AM – 12:00 AMCooking session You'll learn how to make both dough and filling with fragrant Chinese spices in a class where I also reveal how soup can be wrapped in a xiaolongbao, which is a type of dumpling. You will cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways(steaming or frying), and you will learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Making the shape of xiaolongbao Kind chef is teaching students in the class Lovely kids interest in making Xiaolongbao Frying xiaolongbao, also called"Shengjianbao" Taking a picture of your Xiaolongbao 12:00 AM — 13:00 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, let's enjoy the party of your hand-made Xiaolongbao with delicious saurce together! Unlike dumplings or baozi, this little bundle of joy contains delicious soup inside. An elusive perfect xiaolongbao has a delicate skin surrounding the savoury soup that bursts open with the first bite! Eating your hand-made xiaolongbao Enjoy the party together! The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email address or mobile number is correct. The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email address or mobile number is correct. You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email address or mobile number is correct. 10:00 AM - 11:00 AMMeet the chef at the kitchen and introduction The class will begin at 10:00AM in the morning, the chef will be waiting you at the kitchen, you need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then the chef will introduce the cooking culture, the history of Xiaolongbao and local ingredient to you. Cooking class Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 10:00 AM - 11:00 AMMeet the chef at the kitchen and introduction The class will begin at 10:00AM in the morning, the chef will be waiting you at the kitchen, you need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then the chef will introduce the cooking culture, the history of Xiaolongbao and local ingredient to you. Cooking class Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. The class will begin at 10:00AM in the morning, the chef will be waiting you at the kitchen, you need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then the chef will introduce the cooking culture, the history of Xiaolongbao and local ingredient to you. Note: If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. • Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 11:00 AM – 12:00 AMCooking session You'll learn how to make both dough and filling with fragrant Chinese spices in a class where I also reveal how soup can be wrapped in a xiaolongbao, which is a type of dumpling. You will cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways(steaming or frying), and you will learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Making the shape of xiaolongbao Kind chef is teaching students in the class Lovely kids interest in making Xiaolongbao Frying xiaolongbao, also called"Shengjianbao" Taking a picture of your Xiaolongbao 11:00 AM – 12:00 AMCooking session You'll learn how to make both dough and filling with fragrant Chinese spices in a class where I also reveal how soup can be wrapped in a xiaolongbao, which is a type of dumpling. You will cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways(steaming or frying), and you will learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Making the shape of xiaolongbao Kind chef is teaching students in the class Lovely kids interest in making Xiaolongbao Frying xiaolongbao, also called"Shengjianbao" Taking a picture of your Xiaolongbao You'll learn how to make both dough and filling with fragrant Chinese spices in a class where I also reveal how soup can be wrapped in a xiaolongbao, which is a type of dumpling. You will cook the xiaolongbaos in two ways(steaming or frying), and you will learn how to make a yummy Chinese sauce to go with the xiaolongbaos. Making the shape of xiaolongbao Kind chef is teaching students in the class Lovely kids interest in making Xiaolongbao Frying xiaolongbao, also called"Shengjianbao" Taking a picture of your Xiaolongbao 12:00 AM — 13:00 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, let's enjoy the party of your hand-made Xiaolongbao with delicious saurce together! Unlike dumplings or baozi, this little bundle of joy contains delicious soup inside. An elusive perfect xiaolongbao has a delicate skin surrounding the savoury soup that bursts open with the first bite! Eating your hand-made xiaolongbao Enjoy the party together! 12:00 AM — 13:00 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, let's enjoy the party of your hand-made Xiaolongbao with delicious saurce together! Unlike dumplings or baozi, this little bundle of joy contains delicious soup inside. An elusive perfect xiaolongbao has a delicate skin surrounding the savoury soup that bursts open with the first bite! Eating your hand-made xiaolongbao Enjoy the party together! Finally, let's enjoy the party of your hand-made Xiaolongbao with delicious saurce together! Unlike dumplings or baozi, this little bundle of joy contains delicious soup inside. An elusive perfect xiaolongbao has a delicate skin surrounding the savoury soup that bursts open with the first bite! Eating your hand-made xiaolongbao Enjoy the party together! Price Includes: Cooking class fee. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Excludes: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. Price Includes: Cooking class fee. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Excludes: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. Price Includes: Cooking class fee. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Excludes: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. • Cooking class fee. • Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. • Complimentary tea. • Hotel pickup and drop-off services. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour How to get the detail address of the kitchen? The kitchen is at Huangpu Qu, Shanghai Shi, China, where is near Xintiandi commercial area. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. How to get the detail address of the kitchen? The kitchen is at Huangpu Qu, Shanghai Shi, China, where is near Xintiandi commercial area. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. How to get the detail address of the kitchen? The kitchen is at Huangpu Qu, Shanghai Shi, China, where is near Xintiandi commercial area. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. The kitchen is at Huangpu Qu, Shanghai Shi, China, where is near Xintiandi commercial area. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the kitchen. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 68 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 68 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 68 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20