ID: 51321f730b9f286
Title: Simatai Great Wall: Visiting Tips from a Local Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/greatwall/section/simatai-greatwall.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Compared to other sections of the Great Wall (eg. Badaling, Mutianyu, etc.), Simatai Great Wall is the most authentic. If you want to meet the Great Wall without refurbishment, you should visit Simatai. You may see the collapsed sidewalls and bumpy ground, but this is the charm of Simatai Great Wall—it went through more than 600 years until now. Facts about Simatai Great Wall: • Chinese: 司马台 /srr-maa-teye/ • Location: 120 kilometers (75 miles), about 2½ hours' drive from Beijing • Time of visit: 1-2 days • Opening time: Day time from 09:00 am–05:pm; night time from November to April, 17:30 - 20:40 on weekends and 17:30 - 20:10 on weekdays; from May to October, 17:30 - 21:40 on weekends and 17:30 - 21:10 on weekdays Vincent Lee 10+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hi, I'm Vincent. Twelve years ago, I graduated with a master's degree in hospitality and tourism management. Now, I am an enthusiastic local tour guide in Beijing, and I truly enjoy my job of showcasing the beautiful city of Beijing to every tourist. Beijing boasts the most UNESCO World Heritage Sites like the Great Wall and the Forbidden City. Welcome to Beijing for an interesting and authentic tour! 10+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hi, I'm Vincent. Twelve years ago, I graduated with a master's degree in hospitality and tourism management. Now, I am an enthusiastic local tour guide in Beijing, and I truly enjoy my job of showcasing the beautiful city of Beijing to every tourist. Beijing boasts the most UNESCO World Heritage Sites like the Great Wall and the Forbidden City. Welcome to Beijing for an interesting and authentic tour! • Best Visit Route • Is Simatai Wheelchair-Friendly • Best Time to Visit • How to Get Tickets • Transportation Tips • Simatai vs Mutianyu What Is the Best Visit Route to Enjoy the Simatai Great Wall The Simatai Great Wall is divided by the Simatai Reservoir (Yuanyang Lake). It stretches 5.4 km and includes a total of 39 watchtowers, but only 10 watchtowers are open to visitors, which are East No. 1 to No. 10 towers. There are two ways to go up and down, by trails or by cable car. • For young tourists or hikers, I suggest going up by trails. It takes around 40 minutes to get to the No.2 Watchtower, and from there, it's a continuous ascent route to the No. 10 Watchtower, which takes about 2 hours from tower 2-10. (It will be a special hiking experience with a view of the authentic Great Wall, and you can also overlook the beautiful lake and Gubeikou Water Town from a top point. When you go down, you can take the same way back, or take the cable car from tower 8.) • For the aged or children, taking the cable car up and down is also a good choice to avoid long waking and ascending. When you finish the cable car, walking to No.5 tower, and visiting No.4-6 towers is an easier option, as the route is not too steep. Cable cars in Simatai There is one side wall (单边墙) in Simatai Great Wall, which is one of its most magnificent and dangerous sections. However, I usually don't recommend our clients walking there, because it's hard to find the hiking route, and it's quite dangerous when you step on the narrow wall. The Simatai Great Wall also offers a unique night tour experience, with lights illuminating the Great Wall, making it resemble a majestic dragon. For safety reasons, the night tour is only accessible via cable car, and only No. 5–6 Watchtowers are open to visitors. Daytime Visit vs Night Visit Simatai Great Wall at Daytime Simatai Great Wall at Night During the daytime tour, you can hike a long distance and experience the authentic Great Wall. The nighttime tour offers a special experience, as you'll see the wall is lit up beautifully, creating a unique atmosphere. If have to choose one, I prefer to travel during the daytime, as you'll see a more comprehensive Great Wall. If time permits, you can visit at both times or visit another section of the Great Wall (Mutianyu or Jinshanling) during the day and enjoy the Simatai's night view at night. Recommended Simatai Great Wall tours: 2-Day Great Wall Mutianyu-Simatai Day-Night Tour 4-Day Beijing Private Tour Recommended Simatai Great Wall tours: • 2-Day Great Wall Mutianyu-Simatai Day-Night Tour • 4-Day Beijing Private Tour Is Simatai Wheelchair-Friendly? A part of the bumpy road in Simatai Simatai is not suitable for guests with wheelchairs, because it's quite hard to access the Great Wall, even with the cable car. The trail leading to the Great Wall is also quite bumpy. If you are traveling with wheelchair users, I recommend Juyong Pass Great Wall because it is easier to access. After exiting Parking Lot No. 4 at Juyong Pass, you can reach the Great Wall by walking 200 meters without any steps. However, there will be steps if you continue walking on the Great Wall. In contrast, other sections of the Great Wall, such as Badaling, Mutianyu, and Simatai, require taking a cable car, and after getting off the cable car, there will also be steps to reach the Great Wall. From this perspective, I believe Juyong Pass is more suitable for wheelchair users. Juyong Pass Great Wall Best Times to Visit Simatai Great Wall The best seasons to visit the Simatai Great Wall are spring and autumn, when the weather is perfect and the surrounding is accompanied by green or golden leaves. In Spring (March to May), temperatures range from about 8 to 20 ℃, and the crowds are not too large, making it a great time for enjoying flowers and scenery. In summer (June to August), temperatures range from about 20 to 35 ℃, which can be hot. This is also the peak tourist season, especially during the Chinese summer holidays from July to August, so it can get crowded. However, an evening visit is good to avoid the crowds and heat. Simatai Great Wall in Summer In autumn (September to November), temperatures range from about 8 to 20 ℃. Autumn is considered the most picturesque season in Beijing, with the second-highest number of visitors. The red leaves in Gubei Water Town and Simatai are beautiful. Simatai Great Wall in Autumn In winter (December to February), temperatures range from about -10 to 10 ℃. The days are short and cold, with fewer tourists, making it suitable for daytime sightseeing. When it snows (usually in January), the scenery is stunning, but the Great Wall can be slippery, so caution is advised. Simatai Great Wall in Winter Typically, there are fewer crowds in the morning than in the afternoon. As Gubei Water Town is just beside the Simatai Great Wall, some of our clients choose to visit these 2 places together. Staying overnight in the Gubei Water Town and visiting Simatai Great Wall the next morning is a perfect choice to help avoid the crowd. From downtown Beijing to Simatai or Gubei Water Town, it takes about 2.5-3 hours. I suggest you visit the Gubei Water Town in the afternoon on the first day. You can stroll around the town, experience some traditional activities (tie-dyeing, kite making, Buddhist text tracing, etc.), and enjoy some hot springs. Then, go to the Great Wall in the morning of the second day. You will enjoy the best view and the least crowd. Gubei Water Town in winter Hot Spring in Gubei Water Town How to Get the Simatai Great Wall Tickets You can buy tickets for the Simatai Great Wall online or at the site. It's best to book your ticket at least one day in advance. Gubei Water Town is located right next to the Simatai Great Wall, and shuttle buses are available between the two locations. If you plan to visit both Gubei Water Town and the Simatai Great Wall, you can buy a combo ticket online or at the ticket window. For online ticket purchases, you can check the prices and purchase through the WeChat mini-program called "Beijing W Town 古北水镇商城". See our recommended 11-Day China Classic Tour including Simatai Great Wall: we'll handle the tickets for you. How to Get to Simatai Great Wall from Beijing You can take a bus from downtown Beijing to Gubei Water Town from Dongzhimen Station. Tickets need to be booked in advance via the WeChat Mini Program. There are two buses daily from Dongzhimen to Gubei Water Town (at 9:00 and 13:00), and one bus typically operates daily from the Zhongqing Travel Building to Gubei Water Town (at 10:00). The other way to get there is to rent or book a private car. On a private tour, you can 100% control the pace and timings, with no time wasted waiting for anybody else. From Simatai Great Wall, it takes about 1.5 hours by car to reach Chengde. You can explore the Summer Mountain Resort, which offers a unique glimpse into imperial life, and the Mulan Hunting Paddock, a beautiful forest and grassland where emperors once hunted. Both are great places to visit. (More about Plan a Trip from Beijing to Chengde) Simatai Vs. Mutianyu: Which is Better to Visit Mutianyu is closer to downtown Beijing than Simatai, so it tends to have a higher customer flow. If you're planning to spend a day visiting the Great Wall and another scenic spot in the city, like the Temple of Heaven or Summer Palace, or if you prefer a less steep climb, Mutianyu is a great choice. However, if you would like to see an authentic Great Wall, or you also want to visit the beautiful Gubei Water Town, I personally recommend the Simatai Great Wall. It is more authentic, as it has undergone almost no refurbishment. While Mutianyu Great Wall has been repaired a lot, it still retains more original charm than Badaling and Juyongguan. Recommended China Tours including the Simatai Great Wall: • 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour • 14-Day Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Chongqing, Xiamen and Shanghai Tour