ID: 341a43335c46ef0b
Title: 4-day Hong Kong Disneyland Tour for Family with Kids
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/hongkong/4-day-hongkong-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Hong Kong is a perfect travel destination for a family holiday with kids. Gear up for fun and excitement at Disneyland and spend quality time with family at the highlights of Hong Kong Island. Our 3-day Hong Kong trip will provide airport/train station pick-up and drop-off servie, give you a wonderful family time in Disneyland with private transfer, visit famous landmarks like Victoria Peak, Man Mo Temple, Tai Kwun and taste dim sum in a Michelin-awarded restaurant. Tour Highlights Have a great family day in Hong Kong Disneyland Park. Door-to-door private transfer between the airport/train station, Disneyland and your hotel. Skip the line at the Peak Tram and view the stunning skyline on the Victoria Peak. Visit landmarks of Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple with Michelin Dim Sum tasting. A professional local guide and comfortable air-conditioned vehicle make your trip smooth. Detailed Itinerary Close All Day 1:Hong Kong Arrival Your private driver will meet you at the arrival gate of the airport or high-speed rail station and transfer to your hotel with a comfortable air-conditioned car. After a short break, it's free on your own to explore this modern metropolis. Suggested things to do: Experience the iconic Star Ferry, one of the world’s best-value cruises, between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island, and enjoy amazing views of skyscrapers and jungle-covered hills. Walk along 'Avenue of Stars' which honors Hong Kong's film industry against the stunning backdrop of Victoria Harbor. You could see stunning skyline of Hong Kong in day time and watch the Symphony of Lights laser show at night. Wander through the lively Temple Street Night Market to try local Hong Kong-style snacks or purchase exquisite souvenirs. Day 2:A full day in Disneyland In the morning your private driver will pick you up at your hotel at the time you agreed on yesterday and transfer to Hong Kong Disneyland. Upon arrival, just have fun in this magical kingdom inspired by fairy-tale dreams with your kids. And explore 7 lands filled with beauty, excitement and Disney Characters — Adventureland, Grizzly Gulch, Mystic Point, Toy Story Land, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland and Main Street, U.S.A. Hong Kong Disneyland is the first theme park in Hong Kong, located on Lantau Island. Though it is the smallest Disney park in the world, it's also a must-see for the special attractions and the inimitable sense of Chinese culture. Each area is uniquely designed to immerse guests in different Disney stories and experiences. One of the highlights of Hong Kong Disneyland is the "Disney Paint the Night" parade, a dazzling nighttime spectacle featuring colorful floats, beloved Disney characters, mesmerizing lights and music and the "Disney In The Stars" Fireworks. After the fireworks display ends at around 21:00, your driver will meet you at the gate and transfer back to your hotel. Day 3: Visit Hong Kong Island This day we will explore Hong Kong by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through hidden streets to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong's style dim sum in a Mechilin restaurant. (Note: Private transfer is not included, you need to go to the meeting point on your own.) >> See the detailed itinerary for day 3 After the tour, you will be transfered to your hotel. Day 4: Hong Kong departure Today is your free time to explore Hong Kong. Your private driver will pick you up at your hotel lobby and take you to the airport or train station according to your schedule. Say goodbye to Hong Kong! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. Round-way Peak Tram tickets. Professional English-speaking tour guide. Private transfer service between airport/train station, Disneyland and hotel. A meal of Michelin Dim Sum on Day 3. The itinerary is flexiable for tailor-made. Price Excludes: Disneyland tickets. (optional) Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. Hotels. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Check Availability For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 362 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Hong Kong is a perfect travel destination for a family holiday with kids. Gear up for fun and excitement at Disneyland and spend quality time with family at the highlights of Hong Kong Island. Our 3-day Hong Kong trip will provide airport/train station pick-up and drop-off servie, give you a wonderful family time in Disneyland with private transfer, visit famous landmarks like Victoria Peak, Man Mo Temple, Tai Kwun and taste dim sum in a Michelin-awarded restaurant. Hong Kong is a perfect travel destination for a family holiday with kids. Gear up for fun and excitement at Disneyland and spend quality time with family at the highlights of Hong Kong Island. Our 3-day Hong Kong trip will provide airport/train station pick-up and drop-off servie, give you a wonderful family time in Disneyland with private transfer, visit famous landmarks like Victoria Peak, Man Mo Temple, Tai Kwun and taste dim sum in a Michelin-awarded restaurant. Tour Highlights Have a great family day in Hong Kong Disneyland Park. Door-to-door private transfer between the airport/train station, Disneyland and your hotel. Skip the line at the Peak Tram and view the stunning skyline on the Victoria Peak. Visit landmarks of Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple with Michelin Dim Sum tasting. A professional local guide and comfortable air-conditioned vehicle make your trip smooth. • Have a great family day in Hong Kong Disneyland Park. • Door-to-door private transfer between the airport/train station, Disneyland and your hotel. • Skip the line at the Peak Tram and view the stunning skyline on the Victoria Peak. • Visit landmarks of Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple with Michelin Dim Sum tasting. • A professional local guide and comfortable air-conditioned vehicle make your trip smooth. Detailed Itinerary Close All Day 1:Hong Kong Arrival Your private driver will meet you at the arrival gate of the airport or high-speed rail station and transfer to your hotel with a comfortable air-conditioned car. After a short break, it's free on your own to explore this modern metropolis. Suggested things to do: Experience the iconic Star Ferry, one of the world’s best-value cruises, between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island, and enjoy amazing views of skyscrapers and jungle-covered hills. Walk along 'Avenue of Stars' which honors Hong Kong's film industry against the stunning backdrop of Victoria Harbor. You could see stunning skyline of Hong Kong in day time and watch the Symphony of Lights laser show at night. Wander through the lively Temple Street Night Market to try local Hong Kong-style snacks or purchase exquisite souvenirs. Day 2:A full day in Disneyland In the morning your private driver will pick you up at your hotel at the time you agreed on yesterday and transfer to Hong Kong Disneyland. Upon arrival, just have fun in this magical kingdom inspired by fairy-tale dreams with your kids. And explore 7 lands filled with beauty, excitement and Disney Characters — Adventureland, Grizzly Gulch, Mystic Point, Toy Story Land, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland and Main Street, U.S.A. Hong Kong Disneyland is the first theme park in Hong Kong, located on Lantau Island. Though it is the smallest Disney park in the world, it's also a must-see for the special attractions and the inimitable sense of Chinese culture. Each area is uniquely designed to immerse guests in different Disney stories and experiences. One of the highlights of Hong Kong Disneyland is the "Disney Paint the Night" parade, a dazzling nighttime spectacle featuring colorful floats, beloved Disney characters, mesmerizing lights and music and the "Disney In The Stars" Fireworks. After the fireworks display ends at around 21:00, your driver will meet you at the gate and transfer back to your hotel. Day 3: Visit Hong Kong Island This day we will explore Hong Kong by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through hidden streets to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong's style dim sum in a Mechilin restaurant. (Note: Private transfer is not included, you need to go to the meeting point on your own.) >> See the detailed itinerary for day 3 After the tour, you will be transfered to your hotel. Day 4: Hong Kong departure Today is your free time to explore Hong Kong. Your private driver will pick you up at your hotel lobby and take you to the airport or train station according to your schedule. Say goodbye to Hong Kong! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Close All Day 1:Hong Kong Arrival Your private driver will meet you at the arrival gate of the airport or high-speed rail station and transfer to your hotel with a comfortable air-conditioned car. After a short break, it's free on your own to explore this modern metropolis. Suggested things to do: Experience the iconic Star Ferry, one of the world’s best-value cruises, between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island, and enjoy amazing views of skyscrapers and jungle-covered hills. Walk along 'Avenue of Stars' which honors Hong Kong's film industry against the stunning backdrop of Victoria Harbor. You could see stunning skyline of Hong Kong in day time and watch the Symphony of Lights laser show at night. Wander through the lively Temple Street Night Market to try local Hong Kong-style snacks or purchase exquisite souvenirs. Day 2:A full day in Disneyland In the morning your private driver will pick you up at your hotel at the time you agreed on yesterday and transfer to Hong Kong Disneyland. Upon arrival, just have fun in this magical kingdom inspired by fairy-tale dreams with your kids. And explore 7 lands filled with beauty, excitement and Disney Characters — Adventureland, Grizzly Gulch, Mystic Point, Toy Story Land, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland and Main Street, U.S.A. Hong Kong Disneyland is the first theme park in Hong Kong, located on Lantau Island. Though it is the smallest Disney park in the world, it's also a must-see for the special attractions and the inimitable sense of Chinese culture. Each area is uniquely designed to immerse guests in different Disney stories and experiences. One of the highlights of Hong Kong Disneyland is the "Disney Paint the Night" parade, a dazzling nighttime spectacle featuring colorful floats, beloved Disney characters, mesmerizing lights and music and the "Disney In The Stars" Fireworks. After the fireworks display ends at around 21:00, your driver will meet you at the gate and transfer back to your hotel. Day 3: Visit Hong Kong Island This day we will explore Hong Kong by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through hidden streets to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong's style dim sum in a Mechilin restaurant. (Note: Private transfer is not included, you need to go to the meeting point on your own.) >> See the detailed itinerary for day 3 After the tour, you will be transfered to your hotel. Day 4: Hong Kong departure Today is your free time to explore Hong Kong. Your private driver will pick you up at your hotel lobby and take you to the airport or train station according to your schedule. Say goodbye to Hong Kong! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Day 1:Hong Kong Arrival Your private driver will meet you at the arrival gate of the airport or high-speed rail station and transfer to your hotel with a comfortable air-conditioned car. After a short break, it's free on your own to explore this modern metropolis. Suggested things to do: Experience the iconic Star Ferry, one of the world’s best-value cruises, between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island, and enjoy amazing views of skyscrapers and jungle-covered hills. Walk along 'Avenue of Stars' which honors Hong Kong's film industry against the stunning backdrop of Victoria Harbor. You could see stunning skyline of Hong Kong in day time and watch the Symphony of Lights laser show at night. Wander through the lively Temple Street Night Market to try local Hong Kong-style snacks or purchase exquisite souvenirs. Day 1:Hong Kong Arrival Your private driver will meet you at the arrival gate of the airport or high-speed rail station and transfer to your hotel with a comfortable air-conditioned car. After a short break, it's free on your own to explore this modern metropolis. Suggested things to do: Experience the iconic Star Ferry, one of the world’s best-value cruises, between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island, and enjoy amazing views of skyscrapers and jungle-covered hills. Walk along 'Avenue of Stars' which honors Hong Kong's film industry against the stunning backdrop of Victoria Harbor. You could see stunning skyline of Hong Kong in day time and watch the Symphony of Lights laser show at night. Wander through the lively Temple Street Night Market to try local Hong Kong-style snacks or purchase exquisite souvenirs. Your private driver will meet you at the arrival gate of the airport or high-speed rail station and transfer to your hotel with a comfortable air-conditioned car. After a short break, it's free on your own to explore this modern metropolis. Suggested things to do: • Experience the iconic Star Ferry, one of the world’s best-value cruises, between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island, and enjoy amazing views of skyscrapers and jungle-covered hills. • Walk along 'Avenue of Stars' which honors Hong Kong's film industry against the stunning backdrop of Victoria Harbor. You could see stunning skyline of Hong Kong in day time and watch the Symphony of Lights laser show at night. • Wander through the lively Temple Street Night Market to try local Hong Kong-style snacks or purchase exquisite souvenirs. Day 2:A full day in Disneyland In the morning your private driver will pick you up at your hotel at the time you agreed on yesterday and transfer to Hong Kong Disneyland. Upon arrival, just have fun in this magical kingdom inspired by fairy-tale dreams with your kids. And explore 7 lands filled with beauty, excitement and Disney Characters — Adventureland, Grizzly Gulch, Mystic Point, Toy Story Land, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland and Main Street, U.S.A. Hong Kong Disneyland is the first theme park in Hong Kong, located on Lantau Island. Though it is the smallest Disney park in the world, it's also a must-see for the special attractions and the inimitable sense of Chinese culture. Each area is uniquely designed to immerse guests in different Disney stories and experiences. One of the highlights of Hong Kong Disneyland is the "Disney Paint the Night" parade, a dazzling nighttime spectacle featuring colorful floats, beloved Disney characters, mesmerizing lights and music and the "Disney In The Stars" Fireworks. After the fireworks display ends at around 21:00, your driver will meet you at the gate and transfer back to your hotel. Day 2:A full day in Disneyland In the morning your private driver will pick you up at your hotel at the time you agreed on yesterday and transfer to Hong Kong Disneyland. Upon arrival, just have fun in this magical kingdom inspired by fairy-tale dreams with your kids. And explore 7 lands filled with beauty, excitement and Disney Characters — Adventureland, Grizzly Gulch, Mystic Point, Toy Story Land, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland and Main Street, U.S.A. Hong Kong Disneyland is the first theme park in Hong Kong, located on Lantau Island. Though it is the smallest Disney park in the world, it's also a must-see for the special attractions and the inimitable sense of Chinese culture. Each area is uniquely designed to immerse guests in different Disney stories and experiences. One of the highlights of Hong Kong Disneyland is the "Disney Paint the Night" parade, a dazzling nighttime spectacle featuring colorful floats, beloved Disney characters, mesmerizing lights and music and the "Disney In The Stars" Fireworks. After the fireworks display ends at around 21:00, your driver will meet you at the gate and transfer back to your hotel. In the morning your private driver will pick you up at your hotel at the time you agreed on yesterday and transfer to Hong Kong Disneyland. Upon arrival, just have fun in this magical kingdom inspired by fairy-tale dreams with your kids. And explore 7 lands filled with beauty, excitement and Disney Characters — Adventureland, Grizzly Gulch, Mystic Point, Toy Story Land, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland and Main Street, U.S.A. Hong Kong Disneyland is the first theme park in Hong Kong, located on Lantau Island. Though it is the smallest Disney park in the world, it's also a must-see for the special attractions and the inimitable sense of Chinese culture. Each area is uniquely designed to immerse guests in different Disney stories and experiences. One of the highlights of Hong Kong Disneyland is the "Disney Paint the Night" parade, a dazzling nighttime spectacle featuring colorful floats, beloved Disney characters, mesmerizing lights and music and the "Disney In The Stars" Fireworks. After the fireworks display ends at around 21:00, your driver will meet you at the gate and transfer back to your hotel. Day 3: Visit Hong Kong Island This day we will explore Hong Kong by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through hidden streets to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong's style dim sum in a Mechilin restaurant. (Note: Private transfer is not included, you need to go to the meeting point on your own.) >> See the detailed itinerary for day 3 After the tour, you will be transfered to your hotel. Day 3: Visit Hong Kong Island This day we will explore Hong Kong by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through hidden streets to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong's style dim sum in a Mechilin restaurant. (Note: Private transfer is not included, you need to go to the meeting point on your own.) >> See the detailed itinerary for day 3 After the tour, you will be transfered to your hotel. This day we will explore Hong Kong by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through hidden streets to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong's style dim sum in a Mechilin restaurant. (Note: Private transfer is not included, you need to go to the meeting point on your own.) >> See the detailed itinerary for day 3 After the tour, you will be transfered to your hotel. Day 4: Hong Kong departure Today is your free time to explore Hong Kong. Your private driver will pick you up at your hotel lobby and take you to the airport or train station according to your schedule. Say goodbye to Hong Kong! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Day 4: Hong Kong departure Today is your free time to explore Hong Kong. Your private driver will pick you up at your hotel lobby and take you to the airport or train station according to your schedule. Say goodbye to Hong Kong! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Today is your free time to explore Hong Kong. Your private driver will pick you up at your hotel lobby and take you to the airport or train station according to your schedule. Say goodbye to Hong Kong! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. Round-way Peak Tram tickets. Professional English-speaking tour guide. Private transfer service between airport/train station, Disneyland and hotel. A meal of Michelin Dim Sum on Day 3. The itinerary is flexiable for tailor-made. Price Excludes: Disneyland tickets. (optional) Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. Hotels. Personal expenses. Price Includes: Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. Round-way Peak Tram tickets. Professional English-speaking tour guide. Private transfer service between airport/train station, Disneyland and hotel. A meal of Michelin Dim Sum on Day 3. The itinerary is flexiable for tailor-made. Price Excludes: Disneyland tickets. (optional) Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. Hotels. Personal expenses. Price Includes: Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. Round-way Peak Tram tickets. Professional English-speaking tour guide. Private transfer service between airport/train station, Disneyland and hotel. A meal of Michelin Dim Sum on Day 3. The itinerary is flexiable for tailor-made. Price Excludes: Disneyland tickets. (optional) Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. Hotels. Personal expenses. • Admission tickets for attractions listed in the itinerary. • Round-way Peak Tram tickets. • Professional English-speaking tour guide. • Private transfer service between airport/train station, Disneyland and hotel. • A meal of Michelin Dim Sum on Day 3. • The itinerary is flexiable for tailor-made. • Disneyland tickets. (optional) • Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. • Hotels. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 362 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 362 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 362 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20