ID: 5ac2f665621451e0
Title: Tianjin Port Transfers & Tours FAQ
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tianjin/tianjin-port-transfer-sightseeing-faq.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Find below the most frequently asked questions on Tianjin Port transfer and tours. Our FAQs cover the following aspects • Cruise Ships - Princess, Volendam & Amsterdam, Celebrity Cruises: Millennium • Our Tour Arrangements - Flexibility, Food, Shopping • Transport - Vehicle, Guide and Driver • Hotels • Booking Transfer & Sightseeing • What to Bring Princess (Diamond & Sapphire) Q: Our cruise also stops in Shanghai and Hong Kong, do you provide any transfers and tours in Shanghai and Hong Kong? A: Yes. We provide pick-ups & transfers, and shore excursions in both cities. • 2 Days 1 Night Shanghai Port Transfer with City Tour from: $230 • 3 Days 2 Night Shanghai Port Transfer with City & Watertown Tour from: $300 • Cruise Port Transfer & Kowloon Island Day Tour from: $146 Q: Since the cruise will stop in Dalian, do I need a double entry visa? A: I see the Diamond Prince will stop in Dalian. You don't need double entry visa, since the ship doesn't leave Chinese territorial waters between Dalian and Tianjin. Q: What information must we include with our visa applications? A: To apply for a visa, you need a letter from our company. A double-entry Visa is required for this trip as you'll enter Beijing and Shanghai separately from other country. US passport holders enjoy visa-free entry to Hong Kong. For visa application, you will to prepare these documents:  Your passport (original, not a copy), which must be valid for at least 6 months from the date of travel, with at least one blank visa page (amendment pages and pages with bar codes are not acceptable for visa stamping).  One completed, signed Visa Application Form for each passport, with two passport photos. China Highlights Travel Service can supply a current visa application form. The Chinese consulate requires a photo similar to the one in your passport. They will only accept photos which are head-only, full frontal, with a white background, approximately 1-1/2" by 2". Cut-outs from personal photographs are not acceptable. Click here to get more information about China Embassy in the United States. You can get a visa easier in the USA via a China Visa Service Center, who provide a fast, efficient service at a very competitive price. Its toll free number is 1-800-799-6560. Click here to learn how to arrange visa via China Visa Service Center. Q: Is it possible to go to Xi'an to see the Terracotta Warriors from Shanghai when we have 2 days in Shanghai? A: Yes. It is possible to visit Xi'an. Q: Can we do Xitang and Tongli water towns in one day? A: It is triangle for Shanghai, Xitang and Tongli, and you would spend 4–5 hours in the van for a one-day tour. If you really want to visit the Sex Museum at Tongli, may I suggest you just visit Tongli water town, instead of Xitang? The cost for one day in Tongli is US$342 for two people. Q: What are the top things to do in a day in Qingdao? A: Badaguan Scenic Area, Zhan Bridge, and Tsingtao Beer Museum are the top places to visit on a day trip. Celebrity Cruises: Millennium Q: Will it be possible for us to visit the Great Wall of China, the Forbidden City and the Summer Palace? We will have three days in Beijing. A: No problem. Q: Could we visit the Mutianyu Great Wall instead of the Badaling Great Wall? A: Sure. We generally recommend Mutianyu because it is less touristy, and fully-restored, with less crowding. Q: How much time will we have at the Great Wall of China? A: You will take a cable car up (about 15 minutes), and have about one to two hours walking on the wall. Let us know if you need more time. Q: Is possible for us to visit inside both the Bird's Nest and the Water Cube, and the Beijing Railway Museum, and skip Tian'anmen Square? A: Yes. Our tours are usually tailor-made. Tell us your requirements (any places you want to visit, food your want eat, etc.) and we will do the rest. Q: We want to visit the Simatai or Mutianyu Great Wall, other top places to visit in Beijing, and also go to Xi'an to visit the Terracotta Army Museum. We will have three days in Beijing. Is it possible? A: It is possible. In the first day, you can visit the summer palace, and then take a flight to Xi'an. Day two: visit the Terracotta Army in the morning, and take a flight back to Beijing. Day three: Visit the Mutianyu Great Wall or Simatai Great Wall. The Simatai Great Wall is about two hours and 30 minutes' drive from Beijing. It is very steep and hard to climb. Mutianyu Great Wall is closer, about 2 hours' drive from Beijing. It is easy to climb. Q: As I am partially disabled and a diabetic, can I have a rest and lunch before 1pm. A: We will notify your guide and ensure you have an early lunch and somewhere comfortable for a rest. Q: Can you find out for us if there is a Roman Catholic church holding a mass after 4:00 PM near the hotel? Maybe we can take a taxi to the church? A: There are several Roman Catholic churches in Beijing. Your tour guide can take you to the church after the tour. After you finish the mass, your guide and driver can drive you back to your hotel. Not a problem. Q: Are your tours custom-made or are they part of some of your pre-packaged plans? We would like to be part of a larger group so as to minimize the cost. A: We understand your concern about cost. You can join a group tour. However, we want to make sure that you understand that a group tour is quite different from a private tour. We have listed some of the important aspects of a SIC (seat-in-a-coach) tour. 1. The coach will pick up and return all tour guests to their hotels. This may mean that guests spend a substantial time on the coach while traveling between hotels. This time onboard the coach is always included as part of the duration of the tour. 2. A large tour group obviously reduces the ability of the guide to answer particular questions from guests and satisfy special requests from guests. 3. Guests may be required to move through the attractions at a pace faster than they wish, to meet the demands of the whole tour party and the time restrictions. Q: Could we have a Peking duck dinner or lunch? A: Yes. We can arrange a Peking duck dinner or lunch for you. We usually use Quanjude Roast Duck Restaurant, the most famous roast duck in the world. Q: Can you arrange vegetarian lunch for us? A: Yes. Q: I can not eat food containing gluten. Can you arrange gluten-free food for me? A: Yes. Tell your travel advisor when booking, and he/she will arrange gluten-free food for you. Q: Will you tours allow us free time to do shopping? A: Your tour ends at 5:00pm so you will have your time for shopping on your own. Your tour guide will be glad to recommend shopping options. Q: Approximately how much free time will we have in the evenings? A: A tour usually starts at 9 am and ends at 5 pm. You will have free time after that. Q: Will your guide take us to visit factories or stores? A: No. China Highlights' itineraries have no built-in souvenir shops, factory outlets, detours or other commission earners. If you ask to go shopping, we're happy to take you to quality local shops, and help you pick a bargin in some interesting local markets. Q: What are the best souvenirs to buy in Beijing? A: The best souvenirs to buy in Beijing include Chinese paper cuts, foldable red lanterns, Chinese knots, Peking opera masks, Beijing Lord Rabbit figurines, and Chinese seals. Q: What kind of vehicle will you use? A: We select from our range of comfortable vehicles to spaciously accommodate your group and luggage, from saloon cars, through people carriers, to coaches. Q: Will you provide a luggage car? A: If you group have lots of luggage, we will provide a car with enough space for you and your bags. For example, if there are 5 people in your group, we will provide an 11-seat mini van. Q: How many people can have window seats in the van? If there were four in your group, a Golden Cup minibus with 6 seats will be arranged, and all of you can have a window seat. We always provide a larger vehicle so that you have ample room to relax. Q: What is the pick-up place in Beijing? Will your guide and driver come to our hotel to pick up us? A: There is no designated pick-up place. Just tell us where you will be and when, and our guide and driver will come to pick up you, and escort you to your port. Tour guide of China Highlights Q: Will my guide be with me all the time? For pickups, your guide will escort you from the pickup to your hotel. For transfers, your guide will pick you up and escort you to the port. For tours, your tour usually starts at 9 am and ends at 5 pm, during which time your guide will be at hand. Q: Will we have the same guide and driver for the entire trip? A: In Beijing you will be escorted by the same guide and driver. Our private tours include a private guide, driver, and vehicle, so that you have the flexibility to travel at your own pace, and the ability to control the pace of your tour. But if you travel from Beijing to Xi'an, you will have another guide in Xi'an. Q: Will you guide and driver help me carry my baggage? A: Yes, they will be glad too. Q: How and where can I find my guide? A: Your guide will be waiting for you at the exit of the Port Cruise Terminal or airport arrival hall holding a name board. We will also tell you the name and contact information of your guide a week in advance. (There are two exits in Tianjin Cruise Port. Exit 2 is in the middle of the hall for tour groups. Exit 3 is on the left of Exit 2 and is for individual travelers.) If your arrival details are uncertain, you can contact your guide to confirm. You can also contact your travel advisor here who will contact the guide for you. We will always be available for you 24 hours a day. Q: Can we have a Spanish-speaking guide? A: Yes. As well as English guides, we also have Germany, French, Japanese, Spanish, and Italian –speaking guides. Charges may vary according to the language. Q: Who should we tip and how much? A: Unlike other travel agencies in China we pay the guides and drivers a basic salary. Tipping is not mandatory, however guides and drivers will usually expect a tip. Our suggestion is 100 yuan per day for a guide, and half for the driver, given separately. Of course, only tip if the service has truly satisfied you. Hotel bell boys can be tipped 10 yuan per bag. Q: Because I am very tall (approximately 1.95 meters), can I book a seat with more leg room on the train to Shanghai? A: We recommend you to book a business class or VIP seat on the bullet train. Q: My husband is very tall. Can we get an exit row or is there economy plus with more leg room or how much more is first class on that flight from Hangzhou to Tianjin? A: We recommend you book a business class or VIP seat on the flight. Q: For the train tickets will our full names and passport numbers given to you be enough to supply tickets? A: Yes, full names and passport numbers are enough for us to get the tickets as we will purchase them on the Internet. Your tour guide will assist you to get the tickets in the train station, but you must bring your corresponding passports as they will be checked with the tickets. Q: Is it possible to get twin beds or a kingsize bed in a non-smoking room? A: Yes. We can arrange a room for you based on your requirements. Q: Can we change our hotel? A: You can upgrade/downgrade the hotel class, or try a novel option like a traditional siheyuan courtyard hotel? We can give you many recommendations. Let us know what you are looking for. Q: How far in advance should I book? A: We suggest you book as early as possible. Late reservations can not be guaranteed for the hotel rooms. Demand will be high on the dates when the cruise ships arrive. However, we can make late reservations, and we will try our best to help you with your travel arrangements. No booking less than 10 days in advance. Q: What methods of payment do you accept? A: We offer four methods of payment: 1. Visa, Master Card, JCB, Diners Club, UnionPay and American Express secure online payment. 2. Visa or Master Card secure online payment via PayPal. 3. Visa or Master Card by fax 4. Wire transfer. Cash payment, travelers' check, and company check payment is applicable upon special request, but personal checks cannot be accepted. Q: Do you recommend dust masks because of the smog in Beijing, or isn't it necessary? A: Dust masks are recommended. Though the air quality is getting better in Beijing, dust masks also help when there are dust storms or freezing conditions.