ID: 7b9baa74fb854afa
Title: Private Transfer Between Airports/Train Stations/Cruise Ports and Hotel
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/shanghai/shanghai-airport-hotel-private-transfer.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ We pride ourselves as the UNIQUE Shanghai local travel agency that provides a secure, reliable, fast and serene airport and train transfer service, with a 24/7 customer service. We don't just assist our customers with hotel and airport staff communication but we are also efficient in handling unanticipated circumstances such as lost luggage, visa problems amongst many others. In case your luggage gets missing, you can be rest assured that we will launch an immediate luggage search to find it. Choose us and make an exceptional start to your China trip! Transfer Types Our Vehicle Fleet Service Details (Take Pudong Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival in Shanghai Pudong Airport, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. In case you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), please try the following procedure to get in touch with us. We will do our best to solve your problem on the spot. Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and currency exchange shop if you need. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the accommodation with airbnb, your driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. You need to do the check-in formalities by yourself. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for your luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Map of Shanghai Pudong International Airport Your driver will help you with your luggage Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Service Price (USD/One Way/Per Person) Transfer Types 1 PAX 2 PAX 3 PAX 4-5 PAX 6-9 PAX 10-15 PAX Pudong Airport - Hotel $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Hotel $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Pudong Airport $85 $47 $30 $30 $18 $12 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Hongqiao Airport $85 $47 $30 $30 $16 $11 Shanghai International Port - Pudong Airport $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Shanghai International Port - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Hongqiao Airport - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Hongqiao Airport - Shanghai Port $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Shanghai Port $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Wusongkou Cruise Port $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Important Notes: This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (< age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. There are two cruise ports in Shanghai, one is Wusongkou cruise port(Baoshan Port), address is No. 1, Baoyang Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai, China. The other one is Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal, address is 500 Dongdaming Rd, Hongkou District, Shanghai, China. FAQs About This Tour What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Shanghai? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Shanghai City What is the 15-Day Visa-Free China Travel by Cruise from Shanghai? The 15-Day Visa-Free Policy for foreign tour groups entering China by cruise from Shanghai has been taken effect on October 1st, 2016. China Highlights has been authorized and has the right to organize foreign tour groups to visit Shanghai and Beijing Municipality without a visa. Upon approval by Shanghai immigration inspection authority, if you meet the following conditions, we can declare the 15-Day Visa-Free for you in advance: Customers should be organized by China Highlights and the tour group should consist of no less than 2 members. Customers should hold valid international travel documents (non-Chinese), primarily passport. Customers should enter China from Shanghai by cruise and exit with the same cruise ship, (Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal or Wusongkou Cruise Port). Customers should stay in China for no more than 15 days, which starts counting from the next day upon arrival. Other Restrictions: Enter China from Shanghai might call at and leave the country from other port cities in China. However, foreign tour groups should travel as a whole with their cruise ship. The areas of activity are confined to Beijing Municipality, Tianjin Municipality, Shanghai Municipality and provinces (including Liaoning, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan). Shanghai Wusongkou Cruise Port What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Transfer from cruise port to hotel/airport, the cruise company will designate departure lounge and meeting time for each passenger. That would be better if you can send us your disembark time, we will meet you at the port on your time. 4. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? We don't charge any additional fees for waiting. Apart from this we also personally monitor each of the flight timings. So, no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. What should I do if my China visa expires? There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Shanghai can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different Confident and reliable We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. Selected Vehicles Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Shanghai tourism administration. Our vehicle will be equipped with baby seat if needed, GPS and traffic reporting software. In order to save time and attempt to avoid traffic congestions, our in-car traffic reporting software will give your driver an idea of the traffic situation ahead. We replace our tour vehicles after every 4 years; as such your tour vehicle will be less than 2 years old. In order to give you a perception of your tour car, we'll send you photos of our tour car before your departure. All our vehicles are insured and each seat covers up to 50,000 RMB. Experienced and Helpful We are experienced in dealing with unpredictable circumstances such as tracing for lost luggage, visa problems, etc. Our tour guide and driver are friendly, enthusiastic and are adamant to assist you! Feel free to let your guide know if you need any help. Our base in Shanghai has more than 50 experienced local staff to solve your problems on the spot. Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Shanghai in 2010, and since then we have started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Shanghai to solve your problems on the spot. China Highlights / Trippst Shanghai Office: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) We pride ourselves as the UNIQUE Shanghai local travel agency that provides a secure, reliable, fast and serene airport and train transfer service, with a 24/7 customer service. We don't just assist our customers with hotel and airport staff communication but we are also efficient in handling unanticipated circumstances such as lost luggage, visa problems amongst many others. In case your luggage gets missing, you can be rest assured that we will launch an immediate luggage search to find it. Choose us and make an exceptional start to your China trip! We pride ourselves as the UNIQUE Shanghai local travel agency that provides a secure, reliable, fast and serene airport and train transfer service, with a 24/7 customer service. We don't just assist our customers with hotel and airport staff communication but we are also efficient in handling unanticipated circumstances such as lost luggage, visa problems amongst many others. In case your luggage gets missing, you can be rest assured that we will launch an immediate luggage search to find it. Choose us and make an exceptional start to your China trip! Service Details (Take Pudong Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival in Shanghai Pudong Airport, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. In case you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), please try the following procedure to get in touch with us. We will do our best to solve your problem on the spot. Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and currency exchange shop if you need. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the accommodation with airbnb, your driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. You need to do the check-in formalities by yourself. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for your luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Map of Shanghai Pudong International Airport Your driver will help you with your luggage Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Service Details (Take Pudong Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival in Shanghai Pudong Airport, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. In case you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), please try the following procedure to get in touch with us. We will do our best to solve your problem on the spot. Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and currency exchange shop if you need. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the accommodation with airbnb, your driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. You need to do the check-in formalities by yourself. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for your luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Map of Shanghai Pudong International Airport Your driver will help you with your luggage Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival in Shanghai Pudong Airport, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. In case you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), please try the following procedure to get in touch with us. We will do our best to solve your problem on the spot. Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and currency exchange shop if you need. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the accommodation with airbnb, your driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. You need to do the check-in formalities by yourself. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for your luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Map of Shanghai Pudong International Airport Your driver will help you with your luggage Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival in Shanghai Pudong Airport, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. In case you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), please try the following procedure to get in touch with us. We will do our best to solve your problem on the spot. Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and currency exchange shop if you need. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the accommodation with airbnb, your driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. You need to do the check-in formalities by yourself. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for your luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Map of Shanghai Pudong International Airport Your driver will help you with your luggage Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Upon arrival in Shanghai Pudong Airport, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. In case you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), please try the following procedure to get in touch with us. We will do our best to solve your problem on the spot. • Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. • Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. • Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and currency exchange shop if you need. • At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the accommodation with airbnb, your driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. You need to do the check-in formalities by yourself. • The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for your luggage. • Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Map of Shanghai Pudong International Airport Your driver will help you with your luggage • Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. • Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Service Price (USD/One Way/Per Person) Transfer Types 1 PAX 2 PAX 3 PAX 4-5 PAX 6-9 PAX 10-15 PAX Pudong Airport - Hotel $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Hotel $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Pudong Airport $85 $47 $30 $30 $18 $12 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Hongqiao Airport $85 $47 $30 $30 $16 $11 Shanghai International Port - Pudong Airport $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Shanghai International Port - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Hongqiao Airport - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Hongqiao Airport - Shanghai Port $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Shanghai Port $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Wusongkou Cruise Port $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Important Notes: This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (< age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. There are two cruise ports in Shanghai, one is Wusongkou cruise port(Baoshan Port), address is No. 1, Baoyang Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai, China. The other one is Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal, address is 500 Dongdaming Rd, Hongkou District, Shanghai, China. Service Price (USD/One Way/Per Person) Transfer Types 1 PAX 2 PAX 3 PAX 4-5 PAX 6-9 PAX 10-15 PAX Pudong Airport - Hotel $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Hotel $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Pudong Airport $85 $47 $30 $30 $18 $12 Wusongkou Cruise Port - Hongqiao Airport $85 $47 $30 $30 $16 $11 Shanghai International Port - Pudong Airport $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Shanghai International Port - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Hongqiao Airport - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Hongqiao Airport - Shanghai Port $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Hotel $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Shanghai Port $50 $25 $17 $14 $12 $8 Train Station - Wusongkou Cruise Port $62 $32 $21 $16 $16 $10 Important Notes: This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (< age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. There are two cruise ports in Shanghai, one is Wusongkou cruise port(Baoshan Port), address is No. 1, Baoyang Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai, China. The other one is Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal, address is 500 Dongdaming Rd, Hongkou District, Shanghai, China. • This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (< age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. • There are two cruise ports in Shanghai, one is Wusongkou cruise port(Baoshan Port), address is No. 1, Baoyang Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai, China. The other one is Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal, address is 500 Dongdaming Rd, Hongkou District, Shanghai, China. FAQs About This Tour What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Shanghai? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Shanghai City What is the 15-Day Visa-Free China Travel by Cruise from Shanghai? The 15-Day Visa-Free Policy for foreign tour groups entering China by cruise from Shanghai has been taken effect on October 1st, 2016. China Highlights has been authorized and has the right to organize foreign tour groups to visit Shanghai and Beijing Municipality without a visa. Upon approval by Shanghai immigration inspection authority, if you meet the following conditions, we can declare the 15-Day Visa-Free for you in advance: Customers should be organized by China Highlights and the tour group should consist of no less than 2 members. Customers should hold valid international travel documents (non-Chinese), primarily passport. Customers should enter China from Shanghai by cruise and exit with the same cruise ship, (Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal or Wusongkou Cruise Port). Customers should stay in China for no more than 15 days, which starts counting from the next day upon arrival. Other Restrictions: Enter China from Shanghai might call at and leave the country from other port cities in China. However, foreign tour groups should travel as a whole with their cruise ship. The areas of activity are confined to Beijing Municipality, Tianjin Municipality, Shanghai Municipality and provinces (including Liaoning, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan). Shanghai Wusongkou Cruise Port What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Transfer from cruise port to hotel/airport, the cruise company will designate departure lounge and meeting time for each passenger. That would be better if you can send us your disembark time, we will meet you at the port on your time. 4. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? We don't charge any additional fees for waiting. Apart from this we also personally monitor each of the flight timings. So, no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. What should I do if my China visa expires? There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Shanghai can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Shanghai? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Shanghai City What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Shanghai? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Shanghai City The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the middle ring road of Shanghai. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Your travel advisor will give you a notification about this. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Shanghai City What is the 15-Day Visa-Free China Travel by Cruise from Shanghai? The 15-Day Visa-Free Policy for foreign tour groups entering China by cruise from Shanghai has been taken effect on October 1st, 2016. China Highlights has been authorized and has the right to organize foreign tour groups to visit Shanghai and Beijing Municipality without a visa. Upon approval by Shanghai immigration inspection authority, if you meet the following conditions, we can declare the 15-Day Visa-Free for you in advance: Customers should be organized by China Highlights and the tour group should consist of no less than 2 members. Customers should hold valid international travel documents (non-Chinese), primarily passport. Customers should enter China from Shanghai by cruise and exit with the same cruise ship, (Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal or Wusongkou Cruise Port). Customers should stay in China for no more than 15 days, which starts counting from the next day upon arrival. Other Restrictions: Enter China from Shanghai might call at and leave the country from other port cities in China. However, foreign tour groups should travel as a whole with their cruise ship. The areas of activity are confined to Beijing Municipality, Tianjin Municipality, Shanghai Municipality and provinces (including Liaoning, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan). Shanghai Wusongkou Cruise Port What is the 15-Day Visa-Free China Travel by Cruise from Shanghai? The 15-Day Visa-Free Policy for foreign tour groups entering China by cruise from Shanghai has been taken effect on October 1st, 2016. China Highlights has been authorized and has the right to organize foreign tour groups to visit Shanghai and Beijing Municipality without a visa. Upon approval by Shanghai immigration inspection authority, if you meet the following conditions, we can declare the 15-Day Visa-Free for you in advance: Customers should be organized by China Highlights and the tour group should consist of no less than 2 members. Customers should hold valid international travel documents (non-Chinese), primarily passport. Customers should enter China from Shanghai by cruise and exit with the same cruise ship, (Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal or Wusongkou Cruise Port). Customers should stay in China for no more than 15 days, which starts counting from the next day upon arrival. Other Restrictions: Enter China from Shanghai might call at and leave the country from other port cities in China. However, foreign tour groups should travel as a whole with their cruise ship. The areas of activity are confined to Beijing Municipality, Tianjin Municipality, Shanghai Municipality and provinces (including Liaoning, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan). Shanghai Wusongkou Cruise Port The 15-Day Visa-Free Policy for foreign tour groups entering China by cruise from Shanghai has been taken effect on October 1st, 2016. China Highlights has been authorized and has the right to organize foreign tour groups to visit Shanghai and Beijing Municipality without a visa. Upon approval by Shanghai immigration inspection authority, if you meet the following conditions, we can declare the 15-Day Visa-Free for you in advance: • Customers should be organized by China Highlights and the tour group should consist of no less than 2 members. • Customers should hold valid international travel documents (non-Chinese), primarily passport. • Customers should enter China from Shanghai by cruise and exit with the same cruise ship, (Shanghai Port International Cruise Terminal or Wusongkou Cruise Port). • Customers should stay in China for no more than 15 days, which starts counting from the next day upon arrival. • Enter China from Shanghai might call at and leave the country from other port cities in China. However, foreign tour groups should travel as a whole with their cruise ship. • The areas of activity are confined to Beijing Municipality, Tianjin Municipality, Shanghai Municipality and provinces (including Liaoning, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan). Shanghai Wusongkou Cruise Port What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Transfer from cruise port to hotel/airport, the cruise company will designate departure lounge and meeting time for each passenger. That would be better if you can send us your disembark time, we will meet you at the port on your time. 4. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Transfer from cruise port to hotel/airport, the cruise company will designate departure lounge and meeting time for each passenger. That would be better if you can send us your disembark time, we will meet you at the port on your time. 4. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Transfer from cruise port to hotel/airport, the cruise company will designate departure lounge and meeting time for each passenger. That would be better if you can send us your disembark time, we will meet you at the port on your time. 4. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? We don't charge any additional fees for waiting. Apart from this we also personally monitor each of the flight timings. So, no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight is delayed? We don't charge any additional fees for waiting. Apart from this we also personally monitor each of the flight timings. So, no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. We don't charge any additional fees for waiting. Apart from this we also personally monitor each of the flight timings. So, no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. What should I do if my China visa expires? There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Shanghai can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. What should I do if my China visa expires? There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Shanghai can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Shanghai can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different Confident and reliable We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. Selected Vehicles Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Shanghai tourism administration. Our vehicle will be equipped with baby seat if needed, GPS and traffic reporting software. In order to save time and attempt to avoid traffic congestions, our in-car traffic reporting software will give your driver an idea of the traffic situation ahead. We replace our tour vehicles after every 4 years; as such your tour vehicle will be less than 2 years old. In order to give you a perception of your tour car, we'll send you photos of our tour car before your departure. All our vehicles are insured and each seat covers up to 50,000 RMB. Experienced and Helpful We are experienced in dealing with unpredictable circumstances such as tracing for lost luggage, visa problems, etc. Our tour guide and driver are friendly, enthusiastic and are adamant to assist you! Feel free to let your guide know if you need any help. Our base in Shanghai has more than 50 experienced local staff to solve your problems on the spot. Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Shanghai in 2010, and since then we have started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Shanghai to solve your problems on the spot. China Highlights / Trippst Shanghai Office: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) What Makes Us Different Confident and reliable We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. Confident and reliable We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. Selected Vehicles Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Shanghai tourism administration. Our vehicle will be equipped with baby seat if needed, GPS and traffic reporting software. In order to save time and attempt to avoid traffic congestions, our in-car traffic reporting software will give your driver an idea of the traffic situation ahead. We replace our tour vehicles after every 4 years; as such your tour vehicle will be less than 2 years old. In order to give you a perception of your tour car, we'll send you photos of our tour car before your departure. All our vehicles are insured and each seat covers up to 50,000 RMB. Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Shanghai tourism administration. Our vehicle will be equipped with baby seat if needed, GPS and traffic reporting software. In order to save time and attempt to avoid traffic congestions, our in-car traffic reporting software will give your driver an idea of the traffic situation ahead. We replace our tour vehicles after every 4 years; as such your tour vehicle will be less than 2 years old. In order to give you a perception of your tour car, we'll send you photos of our tour car before your departure. All our vehicles are insured and each seat covers up to 50,000 RMB. Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Shanghai tourism administration. Our vehicle will be equipped with baby seat if needed, GPS and traffic reporting software. In order to save time and attempt to avoid traffic congestions, our in-car traffic reporting software will give your driver an idea of the traffic situation ahead. We replace our tour vehicles after every 4 years; as such your tour vehicle will be less than 2 years old. In order to give you a perception of your tour car, we'll send you photos of our tour car before your departure. All our vehicles are insured and each seat covers up to 50,000 RMB. Experienced and Helpful We are experienced in dealing with unpredictable circumstances such as tracing for lost luggage, visa problems, etc. Our tour guide and driver are friendly, enthusiastic and are adamant to assist you! Feel free to let your guide know if you need any help. Our base in Shanghai has more than 50 experienced local staff to solve your problems on the spot. Experienced and Helpful We are experienced in dealing with unpredictable circumstances such as tracing for lost luggage, visa problems, etc. Our tour guide and driver are friendly, enthusiastic and are adamant to assist you! Feel free to let your guide know if you need any help. Our base in Shanghai has more than 50 experienced local staff to solve your problems on the spot. We are experienced in dealing with unpredictable circumstances such as tracing for lost luggage, visa problems, etc. Our tour guide and driver are friendly, enthusiastic and are adamant to assist you! Feel free to let your guide know if you need any help. Our base in Shanghai has more than 50 experienced local staff to solve your problems on the spot. Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Shanghai in 2010, and since then we have started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Shanghai to solve your problems on the spot. China Highlights / Trippst Shanghai Office: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Shanghai in 2010, and since then we have started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Shanghai to solve your problems on the spot. China Highlights / Trippst Shanghai Office: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Shanghai in 2010, and since then we have started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Shanghai to solve your problems on the spot. China Highlights / Trippst Shanghai Office: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 18 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Hongqiao Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Hongqiao Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Hongqiao Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Hongqiao Airport to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Train Station Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Wusongkou Cruise Port Private Arrival Transfer: Wusongkou Cruise Port to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Pudong Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Pudong Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Pudong Airport to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Pudong Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Wusongkou Cruise Port to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Wusongkou Cruise Port No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 18 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Hongqiao Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Hongqiao Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Hongqiao Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Hongqiao Airport to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Train Station Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Wusongkou Cruise Port Private Arrival Transfer: Wusongkou Cruise Port to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Pudong Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Pudong Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Pudong Airport to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Pudong Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Wusongkou Cruise Port to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Wusongkou Cruise Port No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 18 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Hongqiao Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Hongqiao Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Hongqiao Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Hongqiao Airport to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Train Station Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Wusongkou Cruise Port Private Arrival Transfer: Wusongkou Cruise Port to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Pudong Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Pudong Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Pudong Airport to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Pudong Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Wusongkou Cruise Port to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Wusongkou Cruise Port No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Hongqiao Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Hongqiao Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Hongqiao Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Hongqiao Airport to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Train Station Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Wusongkou Cruise Port Private Arrival Transfer: Wusongkou Cruise Port to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Pudong Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Pudong Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Pudong Airport to Shanghai International Port Private Arrival Transfer: Shanghai International Port to Pudong Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Wusongkou Cruise Port to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Wusongkou Cruise Port No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20