ID: e719c30271e5af
Title: China Highlights FAM Trip 2025
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/fam-trip/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China Highlights FAM trips invite travel agents to personally experience our top destinations. You're welcome to apply for our 2025 FAM trips by completing the form below or reaching out to us at cecilia@chinahighlights.net. China Highlights FAM trips invite travel agents to personally experience our top destinations. You're welcome to apply for our 2025 FAM trips by completing the form below or reaching out to us at cecilia@chinahighlights.net. Your Name Please enter your name. Company Name Please enter your travel company name. Email Please enter your email address. Please verify your email. Host Agency & Network Affiliation Please enter your email address. Please enter your host angency & network affiliation. Message Should you be unavailable for the 2025 trip, please suggest your preferred dates for alternative timing. Please enter your requirements. Submit Your Name Please enter your name. Company Name Please enter your travel company name. Email Please enter your email address. Please verify your email. Host Agency & Network Affiliation Please enter your email address. Please enter your host angency & network affiliation. Message Should you be unavailable for the 2025 trip, please suggest your preferred dates for alternative timing. Please enter your requirements. Submit Your Name Please enter your name. Company Name Please enter your travel company name. Email Please enter your email address. Please verify your email. Host Agency & Network Affiliation Please enter your email address. Please enter your host angency & network affiliation. Message Should you be unavailable for the 2025 trip, please suggest your preferred dates for alternative timing. Please enter your requirements. Submit Your Name Please enter your name. Company Name Please enter your travel company name. Your Name Please enter your name. Company Name Please enter your travel company name. Email Please enter your email address. Please verify your email. Host Agency & Network Affiliation Please enter your email address. Please enter your host angency & network affiliation. Email Please enter your email address. Please verify your email. Host Agency & Network Affiliation Please enter your email address. Please enter your host angency & network affiliation. Host Agency & Network Affiliation Message Should you be unavailable for the 2025 trip, please suggest your preferred dates for alternative timing. Please enter your requirements. Should you be unavailable for the 2025 trip, please suggest your preferred dates for alternative timing. China FAM TRIP 2025 It's our pleasure to offer travel agents worldwide an exclusive China FAM Trip in 2025. We cordially invite you to experience the local culture and explore the captivating landscapes of China. What you will Receive! Includes the hotels, activities, and transport, and visits to attractions are by private car and guide unless otherwise stated. Your guide will pick you up from lobby of your hotel in the morning. The guide will confirm the pick-up time the day before. Golden Triangle China Tour Unearth China's iconic Golden Triangle tour exclusively designed for travel consultants. Dive into the historic cores of three classic cities: Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai. Hotel Accomodations We've meticulously selected famous local four-star hotels for the journey, ensuring every consultant relishes the enchanting evenings. Local Gourmet Delights Throughout the journey, our guides will lead travel consultants to relish local culinary specialties, including Beijing's world-renowned Peking Duck, Xi'an's distinctive noodles, and a taste of Shanghai's Benbang cuisine, one of the eight major culinary traditions of China. More details It's our pleasure to offer travel agents worldwide an exclusive China FAM Trip in 2025. We cordially invite you to experience the local culture and explore the captivating landscapes of China. What you will Receive! Includes the hotels, activities, and transport, and visits to attractions are by private car and guide unless otherwise stated. Your guide will pick you up from lobby of your hotel in the morning. The guide will confirm the pick-up time the day before. What you will Receive! Includes the hotels, activities, and transport, and visits to attractions are by private car and guide unless otherwise stated. Your guide will pick you up from lobby of your hotel in the morning. The guide will confirm the pick-up time the day before. What you will Receive! Includes the hotels, activities, and transport, and visits to attractions are by private car and guide unless otherwise stated. Your guide will pick you up from lobby of your hotel in the morning. The guide will confirm the pick-up time the day before. Golden Triangle China Tour Unearth China's iconic Golden Triangle tour exclusively designed for travel consultants. Dive into the historic cores of three classic cities: Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai. Golden Triangle China Tour Unearth China's iconic Golden Triangle tour exclusively designed for travel consultants. Dive into the historic cores of three classic cities: Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai. Golden Triangle China Tour Unearth China's iconic Golden Triangle tour exclusively designed for travel consultants. Dive into the historic cores of three classic cities: Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai. Hotel Accomodations We've meticulously selected famous local four-star hotels for the journey, ensuring every consultant relishes the enchanting evenings. Hotel Accomodations We've meticulously selected famous local four-star hotels for the journey, ensuring every consultant relishes the enchanting evenings. We've meticulously selected famous local four-star hotels for the journey, ensuring every consultant relishes the enchanting evenings. Local Gourmet Delights Throughout the journey, our guides will lead travel consultants to relish local culinary specialties, including Beijing's world-renowned Peking Duck, Xi'an's distinctive noodles, and a taste of Shanghai's Benbang cuisine, one of the eight major culinary traditions of China. Local Gourmet Delights Throughout the journey, our guides will lead travel consultants to relish local culinary specialties, including Beijing's world-renowned Peking Duck, Xi'an's distinctive noodles, and a taste of Shanghai's Benbang cuisine, one of the eight major culinary traditions of China. Local Gourmet Delights Throughout the journey, our guides will lead travel consultants to relish local culinary specialties, including Beijing's world-renowned Peking Duck, Xi'an's distinctive noodles, and a taste of Shanghai's Benbang cuisine, one of the eight major culinary traditions of China. FAQs Expand All Q1. Is a single room possible? If I book separately, will itinerary services still apply? The hotel included in our itinerary is based on double occupancy. A single supplement fee will apply if you require a single room. Alternatively, you may book a hotel of your choice at your own expense and other itinerary services still apply excludes the hotel. Q2: What does a FAM Trip entail and who is eligible? FAM Trips serve as customized tours aimed at enabling travel agents and advisors to acquaint themselves with a particular destination. This hands-on experience in a variety of locales, services, and attractions fosters a deeper understanding, thus boosting their capacity to promote these places. Such trips are reserved strictly for industry professionals. Q3: Is it possible to extend the travel duration and visit more destinations of China? If you want to extend your travel duration, visit additional destinations, or include extra experiential activities during the journey, please contact our travel consultant for customized planning. Additional costs beyond the original itinerary will apply. Q4: Is partial attendance possible for this trip? Unfortunately, our tour packages are designed as comprehensive experiences where each day's activities build upon the previous ones. Due to operational requirements, we're unable to accommodate partial participation. FAQs Expand All Q1. Is a single room possible? If I book separately, will itinerary services still apply? The hotel included in our itinerary is based on double occupancy. A single supplement fee will apply if you require a single room. Alternatively, you may book a hotel of your choice at your own expense and other itinerary services still apply excludes the hotel. Q2: What does a FAM Trip entail and who is eligible? FAM Trips serve as customized tours aimed at enabling travel agents and advisors to acquaint themselves with a particular destination. This hands-on experience in a variety of locales, services, and attractions fosters a deeper understanding, thus boosting their capacity to promote these places. Such trips are reserved strictly for industry professionals. Q3: Is it possible to extend the travel duration and visit more destinations of China? If you want to extend your travel duration, visit additional destinations, or include extra experiential activities during the journey, please contact our travel consultant for customized planning. Additional costs beyond the original itinerary will apply. Q4: Is partial attendance possible for this trip? Unfortunately, our tour packages are designed as comprehensive experiences where each day's activities build upon the previous ones. Due to operational requirements, we're unable to accommodate partial participation. Expand All Q1. Is a single room possible? If I book separately, will itinerary services still apply? The hotel included in our itinerary is based on double occupancy. A single supplement fee will apply if you require a single room. Alternatively, you may book a hotel of your choice at your own expense and other itinerary services still apply excludes the hotel. Q2: What does a FAM Trip entail and who is eligible? FAM Trips serve as customized tours aimed at enabling travel agents and advisors to acquaint themselves with a particular destination. This hands-on experience in a variety of locales, services, and attractions fosters a deeper understanding, thus boosting their capacity to promote these places. Such trips are reserved strictly for industry professionals. Q3: Is it possible to extend the travel duration and visit more destinations of China? If you want to extend your travel duration, visit additional destinations, or include extra experiential activities during the journey, please contact our travel consultant for customized planning. Additional costs beyond the original itinerary will apply. Q4: Is partial attendance possible for this trip? Unfortunately, our tour packages are designed as comprehensive experiences where each day's activities build upon the previous ones. Due to operational requirements, we're unable to accommodate partial participation. Q1. Is a single room possible? If I book separately, will itinerary services still apply? The hotel included in our itinerary is based on double occupancy. A single supplement fee will apply if you require a single room. Alternatively, you may book a hotel of your choice at your own expense and other itinerary services still apply excludes the hotel. The hotel included in our itinerary is based on double occupancy. A single supplement fee will apply if you require a single room. Alternatively, you may book a hotel of your choice at your own expense and other itinerary services still apply excludes the hotel. Q2: What does a FAM Trip entail and who is eligible? FAM Trips serve as customized tours aimed at enabling travel agents and advisors to acquaint themselves with a particular destination. This hands-on experience in a variety of locales, services, and attractions fosters a deeper understanding, thus boosting their capacity to promote these places. Such trips are reserved strictly for industry professionals. FAM Trips serve as customized tours aimed at enabling travel agents and advisors to acquaint themselves with a particular destination. This hands-on experience in a variety of locales, services, and attractions fosters a deeper understanding, thus boosting their capacity to promote these places. Such trips are reserved strictly for industry professionals. Q3: Is it possible to extend the travel duration and visit more destinations of China? If you want to extend your travel duration, visit additional destinations, or include extra experiential activities during the journey, please contact our travel consultant for customized planning. Additional costs beyond the original itinerary will apply. If you want to extend your travel duration, visit additional destinations, or include extra experiential activities during the journey, please contact our travel consultant for customized planning. Additional costs beyond the original itinerary will apply. Q4: Is partial attendance possible for this trip? Unfortunately, our tour packages are designed as comprehensive experiences where each day's activities build upon the previous ones. Due to operational requirements, we're unable to accommodate partial participation. Unfortunately, our tour packages are designed as comprehensive experiences where each day's activities build upon the previous ones. Due to operational requirements, we're unable to accommodate partial participation.