ID: 23a00f4c29465d8f
Title: Two-Day Tour to Great Wall, Forbidden City, Summer Palace, etc.
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/beijing/2-day-beijing-boutique-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ See the famous Mao's portrait at the Tiananmen Square, skip the lines and touch the hidden imperial history at the Forbidden City, feel the "greatness" first hand at the Great Wall of China at Mutianyu, walking at the beautiful willow path of the imperial garden – the Summer Palace, discover the belief and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. In this two-day tour you'll get deep touch with this amazing city – Beijing. Tour Highlights Look Mao's portrait at the world largest urban square – Tiananmen Square. Skip the lines at the world largest imperial palace – the Forbidden City. Two-hour hiking to the eighth world wonders - the Great Wall at Mutianyu Section. Walk along the willow path, feeling the elegance of Chinese top imperial garden – the Summer Palace. Hike the Great Wall at Mutianyu in the afternoon, after the crowds leave. Discover the beliefs and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. No shops, no factories, no time-wasting, no hidden costs! The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support Detailed Itinerary Close All Day 1:Visit Tian'anmen Square, the Forbidden City, and the Great Wall at Mutianyu Skip the line at amazing Forbidden City (Imperial Palace Museum) as VIP guests. Walk the Tian'anmen Square with insider's eyesight. 2-hour Great Wall Hiking at Mutianyu section. Smartly-timing arrangement absolutely no shop visiting. Today you'll explore the most highlighted attractions in Beijing. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Simply click here for the detailed itinerary of day 1 Day 2:Visit Summer Palace, Temple of Heaven and Qianmen Street This day you'll deeply explore Beijing by visiting the famous imperial garden - Summer Palace. Afterward, you'll visit the Temple of Heaven where the emperors used to pray for rain and good harvest. In the end, you'll visit the famous business street - Qianmen Street, which has a history of more than 450 years. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. A bird-view of the Forbidden City on the top of Jingshan. Beautiful sunset at Jingshan Park 8:00 AM – 9:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time between 8 am and 9 am . A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 9:00 AM – 11:00 AMVisit the Summer Palace Heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving. You'll visit the world-famous the world famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. After the boat trip, you will stroll along the long corridor with your guide; this is regarded as being the longest art gallery in the world and has 14,000 traditional paintings painted on the beams. The Summer Palace The little boat on the lake 11:30 AM – 1:00 PMVisit Dongjiaominxiang As the longest hutong in Beijing, Dongjiaominxiang Alley was designated as an embassy zone, also called "Beijing Legation Quarter", it was known as "a kingdom inside a kingdom", housing the embassies of France, Japan, the United States, Germany, Russia, Belgium, Holland, Italy and Austria. Many foreign banks, hospitals and post offices also operated here, which explains the various Western-style structures scattered on both sides of the alley. Good to Know: Some of the century-old buildings have been preserved and re-purposed, such as the former Italian Embassy, which now houses the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. Dongjiaominxiang 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the pricing. We would like to recommend you the Da Wan Ju restaurant which serves traditional Chinese food. Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant 2:30 PM – 4:00 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven In the afternoon, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven — this is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages, but we would recommend you spend some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. The Hall of Abstinence is actually a small palace. The Emperor of Heaven needed to go to the palace three days in advance, with no drinking, no entertainment, no mourning, and paying no attention to any crimes being committed. All these acts showed his piousness to his god. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Temple of Heaven 4:30 PM – 5:00 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. English-speaking professional tour guide service. Bottled water. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p). Important Notes: You will share this tour with other tourists (maximum of 10 persons). Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour could be cancelled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. The Forbidden City opens for booking 7 days in advance, and could be sold out very soon during peak season. For a last-minute booking, we will contact you for a backup plan if ticket is sold out. Contact Us. This tour is daily available, but we may exchange day 2 to day 1 accordingly when the Forbidden City is closed on Mondays. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different We care about every details to make sure your a perfect trip! Before your arrival: you are advised to find more details about your tour guide (or driver) and pick up time. We will confirm your boarding information with the airline office one hour after your departure time to make sure we know that you are on the airplane. Our operation staff and guide will confirm the arrival time on the due day via an app on the cell phone. We will even know exactly where you are in the air! We will confirm the hotel room reservation with the front desk by telephone before meeting you at the airport. We will ensure that your requests for a non-smoking room, bathtub, and type of room have been acknowledged by the hotel staff and that your room is ready for you. We will also assist you with ringing the local airline office to double check the reservation for your flights or train departure. We consider this to be an important part of our work as there are three airports and three train stations in Beijing and it is essential that the booking is made at the correct venue. Our car is licensed and registered with Beijing Tourism Administration. The driver will be familiar with the roads and routes to all destinations and restaurants. For the past decade, we have insisted on recycling our tour vehicles every four years, so that we are certain that the vehicle you will be taking is less than two years old. Most importantly, each of our vehicles is insured, and has 50,000 RMB coverage for each passenger. We care about every details Well-selected Restaurants Our product manager inspects the many local featured restaurants based on the online reviews of customers. We have a large selection of different restaurants which cater to the specifications of our customers, and are available to provide various options, such as vegetarian, Muslim, Chinese, Western, Jewish, and Indian restaurants. We are also happy to include your special requests in our reservation form when booking a restaurant for you, such as an allergy to MSG, for example. Well-selected Restaurants Well-designed Itinerary Our product manager has personally inspected all the major attractions in Beijing, and we have precise information regarding location, pricing for admission tickets, and worthiness for spending extra time there. As part of your package, we have also included some admission tickets for you, such as to the clock exhibition in the Forbidden City, the Garden of Virtuous Harmony in the Summer Palace, and the Great Wall. Your guide will be both flexible and easy going; he or she will be happy to show you some of the sights more in-depth if you wish. An inspecting trip to the Great Wall of China We have our own office in Beijing Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office See the famous Mao's portrait at the Tiananmen Square, skip the lines and touch the hidden imperial history at the Forbidden City, feel the "greatness" first hand at the Great Wall of China at Mutianyu, walking at the beautiful willow path of the imperial garden – the Summer Palace, discover the belief and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. In this two-day tour you'll get deep touch with this amazing city – Beijing. See the famous Mao's portrait at the Tiananmen Square, skip the lines and touch the hidden imperial history at the Forbidden City, feel the "greatness" first hand at the Great Wall of China at Mutianyu, walking at the beautiful willow path of the imperial garden – the Summer Palace, discover the belief and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. In this two-day tour you'll get deep touch with this amazing city – Beijing. Tour Highlights Look Mao's portrait at the world largest urban square – Tiananmen Square. Skip the lines at the world largest imperial palace – the Forbidden City. Two-hour hiking to the eighth world wonders - the Great Wall at Mutianyu Section. Walk along the willow path, feeling the elegance of Chinese top imperial garden – the Summer Palace. Hike the Great Wall at Mutianyu in the afternoon, after the crowds leave. Discover the beliefs and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. No shops, no factories, no time-wasting, no hidden costs! • Look Mao's portrait at the world largest urban square – Tiananmen Square. • Skip the lines at the world largest imperial palace – the Forbidden City. • Two-hour hiking to the eighth world wonders - the Great Wall at Mutianyu Section. • Walk along the willow path, feeling the elegance of Chinese top imperial garden – the Summer Palace. • Hike the Great Wall at Mutianyu in the afternoon, after the crowds leave. • Discover the beliefs and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. • No shops, no factories, no time-wasting, no hidden costs! The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support The Design of the Day Trip • Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English • Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience • Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space • Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support Detailed Itinerary Close All Day 1:Visit Tian'anmen Square, the Forbidden City, and the Great Wall at Mutianyu Skip the line at amazing Forbidden City (Imperial Palace Museum) as VIP guests. Walk the Tian'anmen Square with insider's eyesight. 2-hour Great Wall Hiking at Mutianyu section. Smartly-timing arrangement absolutely no shop visiting. Today you'll explore the most highlighted attractions in Beijing. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Simply click here for the detailed itinerary of day 1 Day 2:Visit Summer Palace, Temple of Heaven and Qianmen Street This day you'll deeply explore Beijing by visiting the famous imperial garden - Summer Palace. Afterward, you'll visit the Temple of Heaven where the emperors used to pray for rain and good harvest. In the end, you'll visit the famous business street - Qianmen Street, which has a history of more than 450 years. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. A bird-view of the Forbidden City on the top of Jingshan. Beautiful sunset at Jingshan Park 8:00 AM – 9:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time between 8 am and 9 am . A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 9:00 AM – 11:00 AMVisit the Summer Palace Heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving. You'll visit the world-famous the world famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. After the boat trip, you will stroll along the long corridor with your guide; this is regarded as being the longest art gallery in the world and has 14,000 traditional paintings painted on the beams. The Summer Palace The little boat on the lake 11:30 AM – 1:00 PMVisit Dongjiaominxiang As the longest hutong in Beijing, Dongjiaominxiang Alley was designated as an embassy zone, also called "Beijing Legation Quarter", it was known as "a kingdom inside a kingdom", housing the embassies of France, Japan, the United States, Germany, Russia, Belgium, Holland, Italy and Austria. Many foreign banks, hospitals and post offices also operated here, which explains the various Western-style structures scattered on both sides of the alley. Good to Know: Some of the century-old buildings have been preserved and re-purposed, such as the former Italian Embassy, which now houses the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. Dongjiaominxiang 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the pricing. We would like to recommend you the Da Wan Ju restaurant which serves traditional Chinese food. Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant 2:30 PM – 4:00 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven In the afternoon, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven — this is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages, but we would recommend you spend some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. The Hall of Abstinence is actually a small palace. The Emperor of Heaven needed to go to the palace three days in advance, with no drinking, no entertainment, no mourning, and paying no attention to any crimes being committed. All these acts showed his piousness to his god. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Temple of Heaven 4:30 PM – 5:00 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Close All Day 1:Visit Tian'anmen Square, the Forbidden City, and the Great Wall at Mutianyu Skip the line at amazing Forbidden City (Imperial Palace Museum) as VIP guests. Walk the Tian'anmen Square with insider's eyesight. 2-hour Great Wall Hiking at Mutianyu section. Smartly-timing arrangement absolutely no shop visiting. Today you'll explore the most highlighted attractions in Beijing. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Simply click here for the detailed itinerary of day 1 Day 2:Visit Summer Palace, Temple of Heaven and Qianmen Street This day you'll deeply explore Beijing by visiting the famous imperial garden - Summer Palace. Afterward, you'll visit the Temple of Heaven where the emperors used to pray for rain and good harvest. In the end, you'll visit the famous business street - Qianmen Street, which has a history of more than 450 years. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. A bird-view of the Forbidden City on the top of Jingshan. Beautiful sunset at Jingshan Park 8:00 AM – 9:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time between 8 am and 9 am . A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 9:00 AM – 11:00 AMVisit the Summer Palace Heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving. You'll visit the world-famous the world famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. After the boat trip, you will stroll along the long corridor with your guide; this is regarded as being the longest art gallery in the world and has 14,000 traditional paintings painted on the beams. The Summer Palace The little boat on the lake 11:30 AM – 1:00 PMVisit Dongjiaominxiang As the longest hutong in Beijing, Dongjiaominxiang Alley was designated as an embassy zone, also called "Beijing Legation Quarter", it was known as "a kingdom inside a kingdom", housing the embassies of France, Japan, the United States, Germany, Russia, Belgium, Holland, Italy and Austria. Many foreign banks, hospitals and post offices also operated here, which explains the various Western-style structures scattered on both sides of the alley. Good to Know: Some of the century-old buildings have been preserved and re-purposed, such as the former Italian Embassy, which now houses the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. Dongjiaominxiang 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the pricing. We would like to recommend you the Da Wan Ju restaurant which serves traditional Chinese food. Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant 2:30 PM – 4:00 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven In the afternoon, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven — this is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages, but we would recommend you spend some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. The Hall of Abstinence is actually a small palace. The Emperor of Heaven needed to go to the palace three days in advance, with no drinking, no entertainment, no mourning, and paying no attention to any crimes being committed. All these acts showed his piousness to his god. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Temple of Heaven 4:30 PM – 5:00 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Day 1:Visit Tian'anmen Square, the Forbidden City, and the Great Wall at Mutianyu Skip the line at amazing Forbidden City (Imperial Palace Museum) as VIP guests. Walk the Tian'anmen Square with insider's eyesight. 2-hour Great Wall Hiking at Mutianyu section. Smartly-timing arrangement absolutely no shop visiting. Today you'll explore the most highlighted attractions in Beijing. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Simply click here for the detailed itinerary of day 1 Day 1:Visit Tian'anmen Square, the Forbidden City, and the Great Wall at Mutianyu Skip the line at amazing Forbidden City (Imperial Palace Museum) as VIP guests. Walk the Tian'anmen Square with insider's eyesight. 2-hour Great Wall Hiking at Mutianyu section. Smartly-timing arrangement absolutely no shop visiting. Today you'll explore the most highlighted attractions in Beijing. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Simply click here for the detailed itinerary of day 1 Skip the line at amazing Forbidden City (Imperial Palace Museum) as VIP guests. Walk the Tian'anmen Square with insider's eyesight. 2-hour Great Wall Hiking at Mutianyu section. Smartly-timing arrangement absolutely no shop visiting. Today you'll explore the most highlighted attractions in Beijing. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Simply click here for the detailed itinerary of day 1 Day 2:Visit Summer Palace, Temple of Heaven and Qianmen Street This day you'll deeply explore Beijing by visiting the famous imperial garden - Summer Palace. Afterward, you'll visit the Temple of Heaven where the emperors used to pray for rain and good harvest. In the end, you'll visit the famous business street - Qianmen Street, which has a history of more than 450 years. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. A bird-view of the Forbidden City on the top of Jingshan. Beautiful sunset at Jingshan Park Day 2:Visit Summer Palace, Temple of Heaven and Qianmen Street This day you'll deeply explore Beijing by visiting the famous imperial garden - Summer Palace. Afterward, you'll visit the Temple of Heaven where the emperors used to pray for rain and good harvest. In the end, you'll visit the famous business street - Qianmen Street, which has a history of more than 450 years. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. A bird-view of the Forbidden City on the top of Jingshan. Beautiful sunset at Jingshan Park This day you'll deeply explore Beijing by visiting the famous imperial garden - Summer Palace. Afterward, you'll visit the Temple of Heaven where the emperors used to pray for rain and good harvest. In the end, you'll visit the famous business street - Qianmen Street, which has a history of more than 450 years. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. A bird-view of the Forbidden City on the top of Jingshan. Beautiful sunset at Jingshan Park 8:00 AM – 9:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time between 8 am and 9 am . A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 8:00 AM – 9:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time between 8 am and 9 am . A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time between 8 am and 9 am . A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 9:00 AM – 11:00 AMVisit the Summer Palace Heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving. You'll visit the world-famous the world famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. After the boat trip, you will stroll along the long corridor with your guide; this is regarded as being the longest art gallery in the world and has 14,000 traditional paintings painted on the beams. The Summer Palace The little boat on the lake 9:00 AM – 11:00 AMVisit the Summer Palace Heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving. You'll visit the world-famous the world famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. After the boat trip, you will stroll along the long corridor with your guide; this is regarded as being the longest art gallery in the world and has 14,000 traditional paintings painted on the beams. The Summer Palace The little boat on the lake Heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving. You'll visit the world-famous the world famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. After the boat trip, you will stroll along the long corridor with your guide; this is regarded as being the longest art gallery in the world and has 14,000 traditional paintings painted on the beams. The little boat on the lake 11:30 AM – 1:00 PMVisit Dongjiaominxiang As the longest hutong in Beijing, Dongjiaominxiang Alley was designated as an embassy zone, also called "Beijing Legation Quarter", it was known as "a kingdom inside a kingdom", housing the embassies of France, Japan, the United States, Germany, Russia, Belgium, Holland, Italy and Austria. Many foreign banks, hospitals and post offices also operated here, which explains the various Western-style structures scattered on both sides of the alley. Good to Know: Some of the century-old buildings have been preserved and re-purposed, such as the former Italian Embassy, which now houses the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. Dongjiaominxiang 11:30 AM – 1:00 PMVisit Dongjiaominxiang As the longest hutong in Beijing, Dongjiaominxiang Alley was designated as an embassy zone, also called "Beijing Legation Quarter", it was known as "a kingdom inside a kingdom", housing the embassies of France, Japan, the United States, Germany, Russia, Belgium, Holland, Italy and Austria. Many foreign banks, hospitals and post offices also operated here, which explains the various Western-style structures scattered on both sides of the alley. Good to Know: Some of the century-old buildings have been preserved and re-purposed, such as the former Italian Embassy, which now houses the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. Dongjiaominxiang As the longest hutong in Beijing, Dongjiaominxiang Alley was designated as an embassy zone, also called "Beijing Legation Quarter", it was known as "a kingdom inside a kingdom", housing the embassies of France, Japan, the United States, Germany, Russia, Belgium, Holland, Italy and Austria. Many foreign banks, hospitals and post offices also operated here, which explains the various Western-style structures scattered on both sides of the alley. • Some of the century-old buildings have been preserved and re-purposed, such as the former Italian Embassy, which now houses the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the pricing. We would like to recommend you the Da Wan Ju restaurant which serves traditional Chinese food. Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant 1:00 PM – 2:00 PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the pricing. We would like to recommend you the Da Wan Ju restaurant which serves traditional Chinese food. Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant Lunch is not included in the pricing. We would like to recommend you the Da Wan Ju restaurant which serves traditional Chinese food. Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant Delicious lunch at Da Wan Ju Restaurant 2:30 PM – 4:00 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven In the afternoon, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven — this is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages, but we would recommend you spend some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. The Hall of Abstinence is actually a small palace. The Emperor of Heaven needed to go to the palace three days in advance, with no drinking, no entertainment, no mourning, and paying no attention to any crimes being committed. All these acts showed his piousness to his god. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Temple of Heaven 2:30 PM – 4:00 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven In the afternoon, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven — this is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages, but we would recommend you spend some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. The Hall of Abstinence is actually a small palace. The Emperor of Heaven needed to go to the palace three days in advance, with no drinking, no entertainment, no mourning, and paying no attention to any crimes being committed. All these acts showed his piousness to his god. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Temple of Heaven In the afternoon, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven — this is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages, but we would recommend you spend some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. The Hall of Abstinence is actually a small palace. The Emperor of Heaven needed to go to the palace three days in advance, with no drinking, no entertainment, no mourning, and paying no attention to any crimes being committed. All these acts showed his piousness to his god. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. 4:30 PM – 5:00 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ 4:30 PM – 5:00 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. English-speaking professional tour guide service. Bottled water. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p). Important Notes: You will share this tour with other tourists (maximum of 10 persons). Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour could be cancelled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. The Forbidden City opens for booking 7 days in advance, and could be sold out very soon during peak season. For a last-minute booking, we will contact you for a backup plan if ticket is sold out. Contact Us. This tour is daily available, but we may exchange day 2 to day 1 accordingly when the Forbidden City is closed on Mondays. Price Includes: Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. English-speaking professional tour guide service. Bottled water. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p). Important Notes: You will share this tour with other tourists (maximum of 10 persons). Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour could be cancelled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. The Forbidden City opens for booking 7 days in advance, and could be sold out very soon during peak season. For a last-minute booking, we will contact you for a backup plan if ticket is sold out. Contact Us. This tour is daily available, but we may exchange day 2 to day 1 accordingly when the Forbidden City is closed on Mondays. Price Includes: Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. English-speaking professional tour guide service. Bottled water. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p). • Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. • Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. • English-speaking professional tour guide service. • Bottled water. • Personal expenses. • Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). • Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). • Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). • Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p). Important Notes: You will share this tour with other tourists (maximum of 10 persons). Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour could be cancelled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. The Forbidden City opens for booking 7 days in advance, and could be sold out very soon during peak season. For a last-minute booking, we will contact you for a backup plan if ticket is sold out. Contact Us. This tour is daily available, but we may exchange day 2 to day 1 accordingly when the Forbidden City is closed on Mondays. • You will share this tour with other tourists (maximum of 10 persons). Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour could be cancelled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. • The Forbidden City opens for booking 7 days in advance, and could be sold out very soon during peak season. For a last-minute booking, we will contact you for a backup plan if ticket is sold out. Contact Us. • This tour is daily available, but we may exchange day 2 to day 1 accordingly when the Forbidden City is closed on Mondays. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: • Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. • Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. • In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. • If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different We care about every details to make sure your a perfect trip! Before your arrival: you are advised to find more details about your tour guide (or driver) and pick up time. We will confirm your boarding information with the airline office one hour after your departure time to make sure we know that you are on the airplane. Our operation staff and guide will confirm the arrival time on the due day via an app on the cell phone. We will even know exactly where you are in the air! We will confirm the hotel room reservation with the front desk by telephone before meeting you at the airport. We will ensure that your requests for a non-smoking room, bathtub, and type of room have been acknowledged by the hotel staff and that your room is ready for you. We will also assist you with ringing the local airline office to double check the reservation for your flights or train departure. We consider this to be an important part of our work as there are three airports and three train stations in Beijing and it is essential that the booking is made at the correct venue. Our car is licensed and registered with Beijing Tourism Administration. The driver will be familiar with the roads and routes to all destinations and restaurants. For the past decade, we have insisted on recycling our tour vehicles every four years, so that we are certain that the vehicle you will be taking is less than two years old. Most importantly, each of our vehicles is insured, and has 50,000 RMB coverage for each passenger. We care about every details Well-selected Restaurants Our product manager inspects the many local featured restaurants based on the online reviews of customers. We have a large selection of different restaurants which cater to the specifications of our customers, and are available to provide various options, such as vegetarian, Muslim, Chinese, Western, Jewish, and Indian restaurants. We are also happy to include your special requests in our reservation form when booking a restaurant for you, such as an allergy to MSG, for example. Well-selected Restaurants Well-designed Itinerary Our product manager has personally inspected all the major attractions in Beijing, and we have precise information regarding location, pricing for admission tickets, and worthiness for spending extra time there. As part of your package, we have also included some admission tickets for you, such as to the clock exhibition in the Forbidden City, the Garden of Virtuous Harmony in the Summer Palace, and the Great Wall. Your guide will be both flexible and easy going; he or she will be happy to show you some of the sights more in-depth if you wish. An inspecting trip to the Great Wall of China We have our own office in Beijing Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office What Makes Us Different We care about every details to make sure your a perfect trip! Before your arrival: you are advised to find more details about your tour guide (or driver) and pick up time. We will confirm your boarding information with the airline office one hour after your departure time to make sure we know that you are on the airplane. Our operation staff and guide will confirm the arrival time on the due day via an app on the cell phone. We will even know exactly where you are in the air! We will confirm the hotel room reservation with the front desk by telephone before meeting you at the airport. We will ensure that your requests for a non-smoking room, bathtub, and type of room have been acknowledged by the hotel staff and that your room is ready for you. We will also assist you with ringing the local airline office to double check the reservation for your flights or train departure. We consider this to be an important part of our work as there are three airports and three train stations in Beijing and it is essential that the booking is made at the correct venue. Our car is licensed and registered with Beijing Tourism Administration. The driver will be familiar with the roads and routes to all destinations and restaurants. For the past decade, we have insisted on recycling our tour vehicles every four years, so that we are certain that the vehicle you will be taking is less than two years old. Most importantly, each of our vehicles is insured, and has 50,000 RMB coverage for each passenger. We care about every details We care about every details to make sure your a perfect trip! Before your arrival: you are advised to find more details about your tour guide (or driver) and pick up time. We will confirm your boarding information with the airline office one hour after your departure time to make sure we know that you are on the airplane. Our operation staff and guide will confirm the arrival time on the due day via an app on the cell phone. We will even know exactly where you are in the air! We will confirm the hotel room reservation with the front desk by telephone before meeting you at the airport. We will ensure that your requests for a non-smoking room, bathtub, and type of room have been acknowledged by the hotel staff and that your room is ready for you. We will also assist you with ringing the local airline office to double check the reservation for your flights or train departure. We consider this to be an important part of our work as there are three airports and three train stations in Beijing and it is essential that the booking is made at the correct venue. Our car is licensed and registered with Beijing Tourism Administration. The driver will be familiar with the roads and routes to all destinations and restaurants. For the past decade, we have insisted on recycling our tour vehicles every four years, so that we are certain that the vehicle you will be taking is less than two years old. Most importantly, each of our vehicles is insured, and has 50,000 RMB coverage for each passenger. We care about every details • Before your arrival: you are advised to find more details about your tour guide (or driver) and pick up time. We will confirm your boarding information with the airline office one hour after your departure time to make sure we know that you are on the airplane. Our operation staff and guide will confirm the arrival time on the due day via an app on the cell phone. We will even know exactly where you are in the air! • We will confirm the hotel room reservation with the front desk by telephone before meeting you at the airport. We will ensure that your requests for a non-smoking room, bathtub, and type of room have been acknowledged by the hotel staff and that your room is ready for you. • We will also assist you with ringing the local airline office to double check the reservation for your flights or train departure. We consider this to be an important part of our work as there are three airports and three train stations in Beijing and it is essential that the booking is made at the correct venue. • Our car is licensed and registered with Beijing Tourism Administration. The driver will be familiar with the roads and routes to all destinations and restaurants. For the past decade, we have insisted on recycling our tour vehicles every four years, so that we are certain that the vehicle you will be taking is less than two years old. Most importantly, each of our vehicles is insured, and has 50,000 RMB coverage for each passenger. We care about every details Well-selected Restaurants Our product manager inspects the many local featured restaurants based on the online reviews of customers. We have a large selection of different restaurants which cater to the specifications of our customers, and are available to provide various options, such as vegetarian, Muslim, Chinese, Western, Jewish, and Indian restaurants. We are also happy to include your special requests in our reservation form when booking a restaurant for you, such as an allergy to MSG, for example. Well-selected Restaurants Well-selected Restaurants Our product manager inspects the many local featured restaurants based on the online reviews of customers. We have a large selection of different restaurants which cater to the specifications of our customers, and are available to provide various options, such as vegetarian, Muslim, Chinese, Western, Jewish, and Indian restaurants. We are also happy to include your special requests in our reservation form when booking a restaurant for you, such as an allergy to MSG, for example. Well-selected Restaurants • Our product manager inspects the many local featured restaurants based on the online reviews of customers. We have a large selection of different restaurants which cater to the specifications of our customers, and are available to provide various options, such as vegetarian, Muslim, Chinese, Western, Jewish, and Indian restaurants. We are also happy to include your special requests in our reservation form when booking a restaurant for you, such as an allergy to MSG, for example. Well-selected Restaurants Well-designed Itinerary Our product manager has personally inspected all the major attractions in Beijing, and we have precise information regarding location, pricing for admission tickets, and worthiness for spending extra time there. As part of your package, we have also included some admission tickets for you, such as to the clock exhibition in the Forbidden City, the Garden of Virtuous Harmony in the Summer Palace, and the Great Wall. Your guide will be both flexible and easy going; he or she will be happy to show you some of the sights more in-depth if you wish. An inspecting trip to the Great Wall of China Well-designed Itinerary Our product manager has personally inspected all the major attractions in Beijing, and we have precise information regarding location, pricing for admission tickets, and worthiness for spending extra time there. As part of your package, we have also included some admission tickets for you, such as to the clock exhibition in the Forbidden City, the Garden of Virtuous Harmony in the Summer Palace, and the Great Wall. Your guide will be both flexible and easy going; he or she will be happy to show you some of the sights more in-depth if you wish. An inspecting trip to the Great Wall of China • Our product manager has personally inspected all the major attractions in Beijing, and we have precise information regarding location, pricing for admission tickets, and worthiness for spending extra time there. As part of your package, we have also included some admission tickets for you, such as to the clock exhibition in the Forbidden City, the Garden of Virtuous Harmony in the Summer Palace, and the Great Wall. Your guide will be both flexible and easy going; he or she will be happy to show you some of the sights more in-depth if you wish. An inspecting trip to the Great Wall of China We have our own office in Beijing Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office We have our own office in Beijing Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. • Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) • Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 237 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 237 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 237 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20