ID: 4d01e556cc6592f0
Title: How to Plan a Yunnan and Xinjiang Trip (2026)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-yunnan-and-xinjiang.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Yunnan and Xinjiang boast vast-and-varied landscapes with numerous attractions. Given the abundance of highlights, planning your own unique and fulfilling itinerary within your time frame could be challenging, especially for first-time foreign visitors. To help, this page will give you some tips and inspiration for planning a Yunnan and Xinjiang trip, including itinerary suggestions, best times to visit, transportation, and costs. • How Many Days Are Needed • Itinerary Suggestions • How to Travel between Yunnan and Xinjiang • Best Times • Costs for a Trip to Yunnan and Tibet How Many Days Are Needed for Yunnan and Xinjiang? Since both Yunnan and Xinjiang are large provinces, we recommend spending 12 days to 2 weeks overall to experience the highlights of each region, with 1 week in Yunnan and 1 week in Xinjiang. A tour with us would be adjusted/customized based on your available time, group size, interests, and other requirements. Feel free to contact us to create your trip. Suggestions for Time Spent in Yunnan A 1-week stay in Yunnan for first-timers is recommended to experience its highlights, including Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La. Spend 1 to 2 days exploring each city. If you have more flexibility with your schedule, consider extending your stay in Yunnan based on your interests. For instance: • Hiking lovers might enjoy a 4-Day Yubeng Village Hiking Tour. • For those who love natural scenery and unique minority culture, a visit to Lugu Lake, which takes about 3 days, is recommended. • If you are interested in a more challenging snow mountain experience, the Haba Snow Mountain Climbing Tour might be perfect for you. Our guests in Shangri-La, Yunnan Suggestions for Time Spent in Xinjiang One week is a suggested minimum duration for your first trip to Xinjiang. During this time, you could explore the highlights, including Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar, spending 1 to 2 days in each city. As the largest province in China, Xinjiang offers much to explore. If you have time to explore more, here are a few suggestions: • North Xinjiang, including Kanas, is best visited for its spectacular autumn foliage or snowy winter scenery and takes about 8 days to explore. • In summer, we recommend a trip to Ili, where you could enjoy cooler weather and vast grasslands. • For the more adventurous and culturally curious, a 12-day Taklimakan-Pamirs adventure in South Xinjiang is for you. 12-Day Classic Yunnan and Xinjiang Itinerary • Days 1–2: Kunming • Day 3: Dali • Days 4–5: Lijiang • Days 6–7: Urumqi • Days 8–9: Turpan • Days 10–12: Kashgar If this is your first time visiting Yunnan and Xinjiang, you could start from this 12-day classic itinerary. It includes the must-see attractions of Yunnan and Xinjiang. Your itinerary would begin in Kunming with a visit to the Stone Forest. For a more unique experience, we highly recommend Naigu Stone Forest, which is just a 15-minute drive from the regular Stone Forest. There, you would encounter a majestic black stone forest with towering formations. You would feel a more primal and wild atmosphere compared to the crowded Stone Forest. Additionally, there's a large flower field where cosmos flowers bloom beautifully from June to October, providing a perfect spot for photography. In Dali, you would explore Xizhou town and enjoy a trip around Er Lake, whether by cruise, bike ride, or car tour. In Lijiang, Jade Dragon Snow Mountain is a must-visit. If your physical condition allows, you could ascend to the summit at 4,680 meters (15,354 feet) to witness the expansive snow-covered mountains and sea of clouds. If you're concerned about altitude sickness, you could visit the lower-altitude Blue Moon Valley and Spruce Meadow to see beautiful alpine meadows and highland lakes. Next, fly to Urumqi and take a day trip to see Heavenly Lake and explore the famous Xinjiang International Grand Bazaar. Then head to Turpan. In Turpan, explore the Karez irrigation system and the Kumtag Desert. You will also pass the famous Flaming Mountain, a famous place in Journey to the West, one of the four great classics of Chinese literature. In your final stop, Kashgar, explore Kashgar Old City, enjoy afternoon tea, and watch traditional Xinjiang dance performances. You would also be driven along the Karakoram Highway to enjoy the breathtaking scenery. You could ask the driver to stop for photos whenever you wish. 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming - Dali - Lijiang - Urumqi - Turpan - Kashgar 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming - Dali - Lijiang - Urumqi - Turpan - Kashgar 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming - Dali - Lijiang - Urumqi - Turpan - Kashgar How to Travel between Yunnan and Xinjiang Flying is definitely the best way to travel between Yunnan and Xinjiang. Given the considerable distance between them, flying is the fastest option. If you opt for the train, only normal trains are available, and the journey takes over 30 hours. There are no high-speed trains. There are only direct flights between Kunming and Urumqi. When considering your itinerary, you have the following options: Choosing direct flights: This option requires you to spend an additional 1 or 2 days returning to Kunming or Urumqi and staying overnight. It's suitable for those with a relaxed schedule who don't want a tiring journey, especially for families with children and elderly members, as it offers more comfort. Choosing connecting flights: This option doesn't require you to return to the provincial capital at the end of your trip, but the total travel time for connecting flights could vary from 8 to over 20 hours. If this doesn't bother you too much, you could consider a connecting flight. Additionally, if your schedule allows, you could choose a city with convenient transportation for your layover and explore it along the way. For example, Chengdu has direct flights to Yunnan's Kunming and Lijiang and Urumqi and is worth a visit. Best Times to Visit Xinjiang and Yunnan Our guests in Xinjiang Yunnan and Xinjiang are suitable for travel year-round. However, if you're looking for the best times, we have two recommendations. Best: September to December The best time to visit Yunnan and Xinjiang is from September to December (autumn/early-winter). Besides the drier weather, you could experience a variety of landscapes. During this period, the ancient towns in Yunnan sparkle under the autumn sunlight, while the crystal-clear waters of Er Lake and Lugu Lake are adorned with red leaves and golden grasslands, resembling a picturesque painting. In Xinjiang, the golden birch forests of Kanas, the magnificent scenery of the Taklamakan Desert, and Turpan's grape vineyards all showcase their most beautiful side during this season. Moreover, Xinjiang welcomes early snowfall from late September to early October, especially in Hemu. If you're keen on snowscapes, this period is undoubtedly the best choice. Second Choice: May to August The second option is from May to August (summer). Both Yunnan and Xinjiang are ideal destinations to avoid the summer heat. Yunnan's ancient city alleys are shaded by lush green trees. Shangri-La's Pudacuo National Park is adorned with blooming flowers and the grasslands around the lakes are vibrant green. Xinjiang's Heavenly Lake in the Heavenly Mountains features crystal-clear blue waters surrounded by herds of cattle and sheep against a picturesque backdrop. In the summer, the lavender fields in the Ili River Valley burst into full bloom, blanketing the land in shades of purple. Crowds are expected in July and August, which are the peak tourist months in China. However, compared to cities like Beijing, Yunnan and Xinjiang generally have fewer tourists. Yunnan experiences more rainfall during the summer, but it typically passes quickly, so it's advisable to carry an umbrella. Xinjiang, on the other hand, receives relatively little rainfall. What to Budget for a Trip to Yunnan and Xinjiang The cost for a trip to Yunnan and Xinjiang would be about 260–300 USD per person per day based on a private tour for two people, including the flight between Yunnan and Xinjiang, transportation within Yunnan and Xinjiang, lunch, attractions, hotels, a private guide, and a private car service. Travel costs in Xinjiang are relatively high because the attractions within Xinjiang are far apart, leading to higher transportation costs. Xinjiang is located inland, so the long distances for transporting goods also increase consumer costs. Compared to cities like Beijing, high-quality hotels and restaurants are relatively scarce, which drives up the prices. The average daily expenditure for a private tour in Xinjiang is about 250 USD, whereas in Yunnan it is about 200 USD. These prices are based on an average for previous trips. If you would like a personalized quote, just contact us.