ID: 5f60686030f0048a
Title: Mount Kailash Travel Guide: How to Visit the Sacred Peak of Tibet
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/nagri/mount-kailash.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-09-05T00:00:00
================================================================================

Deep in the remote wilderness of Ngari (Ali) in western Tibet stands Mount Kailash (冈仁波齐), a peak worshiped as the "Center of the World" by Tibetan Buddhism, Hinduism, Bon, and Jainism. Rising like a giant pyramid above the plateau, its snow-capped summit glitters in the sunlight, while its shadow side remains barren, this striking natural contrast adds to its mystery. Unlike other Himalayan mountains, Mount Kailash has never been climbed, as it is considered too sacred to be touched. Instead, pilgrims and travelers come here to walk around it: the Kailash yatra/kora (circumambulation), is one of the world's most spiritual journeys. • Chinese name: 冈仁波齐, gāng rén bō qí • Altitude: 6,638 m (21,778 ft) • Location: Ngari Prefecture, western Tibet, near the borders with Nepal and India; 1,300 km from Lhasa • Entrance fee: RMB 150 (USD 21) • Open: April–October (open all day). Closed in winter (November–March) due to heavy snow and extreme weather • How to Visit Mount Kailash • What Documents Do I Need for Visiting? • How to Get to Mount Kailash • Best Times to Visit Mount Kailash • Where to Stay in Mount Kailash • Altitude Sickness and Preparation How to Visit Mount Kailash Because of its sacredness, most travelers don't come to Mount Kailash just for the scenery, but for the kora (circumambulation trek). This trek is very important for pilgrims, but it is also very hard. If you are not religious, you can still visit Kailash and enjoy the views without doing the whole trek. Here we'll show you both options. For Pilgrims: Kailash Kora Before starting the trek, travelers must first reach Darchen, the base of Mount Kailash. Two pilgrimage routes start from here. The outer kora is the one most people follow. It's long and challenging, but still manageable. The inner kora, though shorter, is extremely steep and dangerous, and only attempted by the most devout pilgrims. Mt. Kailash kora (outer kora) There are five monesteries on Mount Kailash and you'll pass some of them when doing a kora： • Choku/Nyari Monastery is the first temple on a Mount Kailash kora from which you can see the western face of Mount Kailash. • Dirapuk Monastery is a good location to view of the north face of Mount Kailash. • Gyangzha Monastery is the oldest monastery in remote western Tibet, situated on the inner kora circle. • Selung Monastery is the first monastery you will arrive at on the inner kora circle. From Selung Monastery to the foot of saint mountain where you can see a natural "卍" symbol, which is formed by big ice cracks on the south slope of Mount Kailash • Zutulpuk Monastery faces the eastern slope of Mount Kailash is a good place for appreciating a sunrise reflecting off Kailash. It is also the last monastery before returning to the kora's start/finish point Darchen. The outer kora is about 54 km (33 miles) in total, most travelers need 2-3 days to finish the circuit. On the first day, you'll trek about 14 km from Darchen to Dirapuk Monastery, rising from 4,675 m to 5,080 m. The second day is the hardest: a 24 km hike over the 5,648 m Dolma La Pass before descending to Zutulpuk Monastery at 4,835 m. The final day is a much easier 7 km walk back to Darchen. Along the way, you will see Tibetan pilgrims doing devout prostrations. They believe that completing one kora can wash away the sins of a lifetime, ten koras can free one from 500 lifetimes of suffering, and a hundred koras can bring enlightenment. If you are not planning to do the kora, we suggest spending 1–2 days in the area simply enjoying the scenery, see the sacred mountain and lake closely, taking photos, or chatting with pilgrims and other travelers. On the first day, visit nearby Lake Manasarovar, where the deep-blue waters create stunning reflections of Mount Kailash. You can take a short walk along the lakeshore, capture photos of the mountain and lake together, then unwind with a soak at the hot spring hotel in Baga Township (a small town where Darchen is located). On the second day, take the shuttle bus from Darchen to the Prayer Flag Square, a perfect spot to watch the first rays of sunlight touch the sacred peak. Listen to the wind rustling through the colorful prayer flags and enjoy the peaceful atmosphere before departure. Prayer flag and Mt. Kailash Tip: For more understanding, you can watch a Kailash Yatra Movie. The documentary movie Paths of the Soul is the true story of 11 Tibetans' yatra to Mount Kailash, which took 1 year and covered over 2,500 kilometers (1,500 miles) of road. It gives you a quick understanding of Tibetans and their beliefs. The movie (subtitled in English) is now available on Amazon Prime Video, Google Play, and iTunes. Tip: For more understanding, you can watch a Kailash Yatra Movie. The documentary movie Paths of the Soul is the true story of 11 Tibetans' yatra to Mount Kailash, which took 1 year and covered over 2,500 kilometers (1,500 miles) of road. It gives you a quick understanding of Tibetans and their beliefs. The movie (subtitled in English) is now available on Amazon Prime Video, Google Play, and iTunes. What Documents Do I Need for Visiting? Since Mt. Kailash is located in Ngari Prefecture (Ali), near the sensitive border areas of Tibet, foreign travelers need the Aliens' Travel Permit and a Military Permit in addition to the standard Tibet Travel Permit (TTP). And if you travel from Nepal to Tibet, you will need a China Group Visa. If you travel with us, we will arrange all the necessary documents for you. Documents and Policy for Indian Travelers For Indians who are traveling as pilgrims to Mt. Kailash, or are including Kailash as part of their tour, there are a separate set of rules for Tibet Permits. The Tibet permits and China Visa are handled by the Tibet-India Pilgrim Reception Center. It is the only organization that can arrange Indian travelers' visits to the Mt. Kailash area. China Highlights is unable to organize Indian travelers' visits to the Mount Kailash area (Ngari), however we are happy to help with Tibet tours in other parts. How to Get to Mount Kailash Darchen is about 1,300 km (808 miles) from Lhasa and only available by car, so it cannot be reached in a single day. The drive takes around 19 hours in total, but you can break the journey with stops at scenic spots along the way to make the trip less tiring and more enjoyable. With this arrangement, we recommend planning about at least 3 days to travel from Lhasa to Mt. Kailash. To avoid altitude sickness, it's important to spend at least two to three days in Lhasa beforehand. In total, you should plan around 12-14 days in Tibet if you want to complete the Kailash kora. A typical travel route is: • DAY 1-2: Lhasa arrive and sightseeing (elevation 3,650 m / 12,000 ft) • DAY 3: Drive from Lhasa to Shigatse, Shigatse sightseeing • DAY 4: Drive from Shigatse to Saga • DAY 5: Drive from Saga to Darchen with a visit to Lake Manasarovar • Day 6-8: Do a Kailash kora • DAY 9: Drive from Darchen to Zanda for a visit to the soil forest • Day 10-13: Drive back from Zanda to Lhasa with stops at Paryang, Sakya and Shigatse • Day 14: Lhasa Departure For more details, see our 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar. From Kathmandu, you can take an off-road vehicle to the Nepal-China border at Gyirong Port. The distance is only about 170 kilometers (100 miles), but the journey by road may take 8 to 12 hours due to the poor condition of the road. Stay for one night near the port and pass through the port to the Tibet side. The drive from Gyirong to Mount Kailash is about 670 kilometers (420 miles) and can be done in one day as the road is well constructed. You will also arrive in Darchen. If you travel with us, we and our cooperative partner in Nepal will help you to manage all of the transportation and accommodation. Although this could be a long journey, we will do our best to offer you a smooth experience. Best Times to Visit Mount Kailash Late spring to early autumn (May to September) is the best time period to visit Mount Kailash for warmer (above freezing) weather. The monsoon rain comes in summer (July and August), but it usually rains at night and then only lightly, so the weather will not affect a trip too much. If you are going to do a yatra around Mount Kailash, summer is the best time because of the warmer temperature and higher oxygen content. The climate in Tibet is generally cold and dry. In remote western Tibet, the climate is even colder and drier. Near Mount Kailash, snow falls even during the warmest month of June. In winter, heavy snow will seal the mountain passes. On an average day, the temperature reaches as high as 14℃ (57℉) and as low as -12℃(10℉). The average difference between the day and night temperature is around 14℃ (25℉). The nights are much colder than the day. Where to Stay in Mount Kailash If you plan to do the Mount Kailash kora, you'll spend the first night at Dirapuk Monastery and the second at Zutulpuk Monastery. Both places offer very basic accommodation: small shared dorms, dirty pit toilets, and generally poor hygiene. We strongly recommend bringing your own sleeping bag or disposable bedding. Food on the kora is also limited. Water and meals available along the route are not always clean, so it's best to carry your own drinking water and some high-calorie snacks. If you're not trekking, you'll stay in Baga Township. Prices here are higher than in other parts of Tibet, but the accommodation and food are much better than on the mountain. Since the town is very close to Mount Kailash, you can even see the sacred peak right from the main street. Altitude Sickness and Preparation The high altitude makes it dangerous for un-acclimatized people to exert themselves. No matter whether you plan to do a Mount Kailash trek or not, we advise that you prepare physically and bring the right equipment and clothes when journeying to Kailash. Before your trip: Consult your doctor about suitable medicines for altitude sickness, get a basic health check, and stay active to improve fitness. Avoid traveling if you are sick. Acclimatization: Spend 2–3 days in Lhasa or Shigatse before heading west to allow your body to adjust. On the journey: Drink some Tibetan butter tea to warm up your body and help you to conquer altitude sickness. Dress in warm, lightweight layers to prevent cold-related illness, stay hydrated, and avoid overexertion. If you feel unwell, descend to a lower altitude and seek help from your guide. Touring Mount Kailash with China Highlights We will help you to get all of the necessary documents and will manage all of the bookings for you. Just tell us your plans and let us assist you with your challenge. Contact us to start your Mount Kailash tour, or see the following popular Tibet tours for inspiration: • 5-Day Lhasa Classics and Lake Yamdrok Tour • 8-Day Tibet Tour including Tsedang, Shigatse, and Lhasa • 7-Day Tibet Tour by Train from Xining