ID: 28b144dd7930e4e7
Title: 9 Beautiful Ancient Towns in China: A Visiting Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/special-report/ancient-town/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China's ancient towns and villages are full of history and charm. Here are nine places to explore. Each offers a unique glimpse into the past. How to Choose the Best Time: For towns known for their architecture, like Pingyao and Lijiang, visiting times are flexible as they are not affected by the seasons and can be enjoyed year-round. However, for towns and villages with natural scenery, such as Huangling and Hongcun, choosing the right season is crucial. Spring (March-April) and autumn (October-November) are the most beautiful times to visit. How to Choose the Best Time: For towns known for their architecture, like Pingyao and Lijiang, visiting times are flexible as they are not affected by the seasons and can be enjoyed year-round. However, for towns and villages with natural scenery, such as Huangling and Hongcun, choosing the right season is crucial. Spring (March-April) and autumn (October-November) are the most beautiful times to visit. • 1. Furong Ancient Town • 2. Pingyao Ancient Town • 3. Hongcun Village • 4. Lijiang Old Town • 5. Nanxun Ancient Town • 6. Hemu Village • 7. Shaxi Ancient Town • 8. Bishan Village • 9. Huangling Village 1. Furong Ancient Town, Zhangjiajie A town on a massive roaring waterfall is the biggest highlight of Furong Ancient Town. Choosing the right time to visit is key, especially if you're captivated by its stunning media images. The night view is the most beautiful, so consider staying overnight to enjoy the light show from 7:30 to 10 pm. The best photo spot is on the platform opposite the waterfall. Visit between June and August (best times) for the fullest waterfall experience. A unique experience is walking along the stone path beneath the waterfall, feeling the refreshing mist. There are direct trains to Furong Town from both Changsha and Zhangjiajie. You could combine a visit to Zhangjiajie and Fenghuang Ancient Town with Furong Ancient Town: • Day 1: Zhangjiajie arrival • Days 2-3: Zhangajiajie National Park, Glass Bridge, 72 Wonder Tower • Day 4: Zhangjiajie to Furong and stay overnight • Day 5: Furong to Fenghuang Ancient Town • Day 6: Fenghuang to Changsha for departure If you are interested in the itinerary, check out more details in our 8-Day Zhangjiajie, Furong, Fenghuang, and Shanghai Tour 2. Pingyao Ancient Town, Shanxi In Pingyao Ancient Town, you could experience what a county was like during the Ming and Qing dynasties—it's the most well-preserved ancient town in China. The ancient town is expansive, featuring 22 scenic spots. Many are similar, so it's not necessary to visit them all. Instead, focus on the highlights: • Visit the first and oldest bank in China offering insights into ancient Chinese banking. • The Ancient Government Office: Discover how local government operated during the Ming and Qing dynasties. Every day, there are simulated performances to show how they works. • See the Wang Family Compound ('little Forbidden City'): It has fewer tourists and offers a look at the lifestyle of wealthy merchants. • Climb the city walls at sunset for views of tiled rooftops stretching like a turtle shell—a symbol of longevity. For a truly unforgettable experience, dress in traditional Chinese attire for a photo shoot. The historic buildings provide the perfect backdrop for capturing Chinese-style photos. In the evening, the town is particularly enchanting with red lanterns aglow, offering a relaxing atmosphere to sit and chat in one of the many bars. If your schedule allows, we highly recommend staying overnight. Pingyao is easily accessible from Beijing and Xi'an by high-speed train, taking just 3 to 4 hours. To enrich the travel itinerary, It is a good idea to combine Pingyao with the popular Hanging Temple. See our 4-Day Essence of Datong and Pingyao Tour. 3. Hongcun Village, Huangshan Our guests in Hongcun The beauty of Hongcun resembles a Chinese ink painting, especially with its Huizhou-style architecture seamlessly blending into the natural surroundings. Spring (March-April) is the best time to visit Hongcun. Although it may be foggy and rainy, this weather enhances the scenery of the blue tiles and white walls. You could also enjoy vast fields of blooming rapeseed flowers at that time. Compared to the crowded summer months of July and August, there are fewer tourists during this time. Another underrated season is winter, where you could experience Hongcun shrouded in mist after a snowfall, along with the snowy vistas of the Yellow Mountain. Hongcun is at the foot of Huangshan. It is easily accessible by high-speed train from Hangzhou or Shanghai, taking just 2-3 hours. For a trip to Hongcun and Huangshan, we recommend spending 3 days: the first day for arrival and exploring Hongcun, the second day for the Yellow Mountain, and the third day for departure. Check out our 3-Day Essence of Huangshan Tour 4. Lijiang Old Town, Yunnan What sets Lijiang Old Town apart is its intricate network of canals, cobblestone streets, and fresh flowers. It creates a sense of romance. You'll notice the unique Naxi architecture, characterized by detailed wooden carvings and traditional courtyards. The bustling Sifang Street is the heart of the town. There you could feel a vibrant mix of local shops, cafes, and markets. The Sakura Restaurant, located at the Sifang Street, is a popular check-in spot. It is surrounded by bunches of flowers and succulents with mist effects. You could capture a romantic ambiance, especially with the evening lighting. Every night, Sifang Street hosts vibrant traditional bonfire dance performances, lively but could be a little crowded. To fully enjoy its lively atmosphere, consider staying at a hotel within the old town. If you like performance, we select a quiet and more authentic dance performance in a hidden courtyard. There you could also hear the nearly lost ancient music of the Naxi people. Bonus Tip: Black Dragon Pool Park, about a half-hour walk from Lijiang Old Town, is one of the best spots to photograph Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Black Dragon Pool Park in autumn Itinerary suggestions for a Lijiang trip: • Day 1: Arriving in the morning and explore Lijiang Ancient Town in the afternoon; stay overnight • Day 2: Visit Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Here is a classic Yunnan itinerary including Lijiang for your inspiration: 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour 5. Nanxun Ancient Town There are many ancient towns in the Jiangnan region, and among them, we most recommend Nanxun Ancient Town. Compared to the more popular Wuzhen and Zhouzhuang, Nanxun is less commercialized. Local residents still live within the Town. In the morning, you could see residents along the river washing clothes, farmers carrying loads across the covered bridges, and locals jogging in the long corridors. We suggest staying overnight there. When the crowds disperse in the evening, you would feel a truly tranquil and pleasant atmosphere of a water town. The red lanterns along the riverside ancient path of Baijianlou all light up, making it perfect for photography and strolling. Getting to Nanxun from both Shanghai and Hangzhou is very convenient, with a two-hour drive. A four-day itinerary combining Shanghai and Hangzhou is recommended. • Day 1: Shanghai • Day 2: Shanghai, Shanghai to Hangzhou • Day 3: Hangzhou • Day 4: Nanxun Ancient Town Check out our 4-Day Shanghai, Hangzhou, and Nanxun Water Town Culture Tour 6. Hemu Village, Xinjiang If you are planning a winter trip with a village, we suggest Hemu Viilage most. As you could see one of the most beautiful snow scenery there. There, you would see wooden houses, vast forests, and rolling mountains are blanketed in thick snow —matches all your winter fairy tale imaginations. You could stay in a cozy cabin, explore the scenic trails by sledding, ski, and enjoy a warm cup of milk tea. Autumn is also an ideal season to visit — traditional wooden houses nestled among vast golden birch trees and grasslands. The sunrise in Hemu, with morning mist and the rising sun, is a must-see. The Harden Viewing Platform, a 30-minute climb, offers the best vantage point. For sunsets, the viewing platform in the Hongbasi Grassland is the best spot. You could also enjoy horseback riding through the valley forests. Kanas is close to Hemu Village, about 1-hour drive. You could combine them in one trip for a more extreme visual enjoyment. See our 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas In winter, there would be tourist trains from Urumqi to Altay, known as the 'Snow Country Train'. However, the departure times for them are irregular and unstable, making it difficult to secure a ticket. If you want to enjoy the snowy scenery by train, the normal train from Urumqi to Altay is a great alternative. Train K9765 is recommended because it arrives in Altay just in time to see the sunrise. In winter, there would be tourist trains from Urumqi to Altay, known as the 'Snow Country Train'. However, the departure times for them are irregular and unstable, making it difficult to secure a ticket. If you want to enjoy the snowy scenery by train, the normal train from Urumqi to Altay is a great alternative. Train K9765 is recommended because it arrives in Altay just in time to see the sunrise. 7. Shaxi Ancient Town, Yunnan Yujin Bridge in Shaxi Compared to the vibrant Lijiang Ancient Town, Shaxi Ancient Town is more tranquil and rustic. The Chinese drama "Meet Yourself" has brought more attention to Shaxi's beauty, attracting visitors to check out locations from the show, such as the ancient theater stage, Pioneer Bookstore, and Yujin Bridge. Even if you haven't seen the drama, Shaxi is still worth a visit. The town is small, and as you stroll leisurely through its alleys, you'll always find interesting spots, like the treehouse that you can climb up to. Shaxi is about a 1.5 to 2-hour drive from Lijiang or Dali, making a day trip feasible. However, we recommend staying overnight, as experiencing the slow pace of life is the best way to enjoy Yunnan. Bask in the sun and wander around Shaxi to truly feel its beauty and healing atmosphere. See our 8-Day 'Meet Yourself' Yunnan Tour 8. Bishan Village, Huangshan Due to its distance from Huangshan, Bishan Village is more tranquil compared to villages like Hongcun. If you're looking for a less touristy spot to vacation or experience a rural utopia, Bishan is an excellent choice. The village is infused with a unique artistic atmosphere. Thanks to the arrival of artists, the ancient village has been revitalized: a century-old ancestral hall has been transformed into one of China's most beautiful rural bookstores, and pigsties have become elegant bars. In Bishan, the best activity is to simply do nothing. With a cup of coffee, gazing at the rice fields and distant mountains, spend a leisurely afternoon. Bishan is not big. You could explore on foot, and every snapshot is picturesque. There are four daily buses from Xidi to Bishan, with two in the morning and two in the afternoon. If you're departing directly from the Yellow Mountain or the train station, taking a taxi is more convenient, about 1.5 hours. Suggested itinerary: 2 days in Huangshan and 1 day in Bishan. • Day 1：Huangshan arrival • Days 2-3: Visit the Yellow Mountain • Day 4: Bishan • Day 5: Departure Check out our 9-Day Huangshan, Wuyuan, Suzhou, and Shanghai Spring Tour 9. Huangling Village, Wuyuan If you love rural landscapes and flower viewing, Huangling Village is the perfect choice. It's one of the top spots in Wuyuan for seeing rapeseed flowers. The best time to visit is from March 15-25, with late March to early April being the second best. You could take the sightseeing cable car to see the panoramic views of the terraced flower fields and ancient villages—the most recommended way. For a more relaxing experience, you could enjoy the hot springs at the mountain top while overlooking the flower fields. Autumn (October-November) is another beautiful season in Huangling Village. The ripe red persimmons, vibrant red maple leaves, and golden ginkgo leaves provide an ideal backdrop for photography. Huangling Village in autumn For a comfortable trip, we suggest spending a day and a night there, including a stay at the hot spring boutique inns within the scenic area. As for transportation, getting to Wuyuan by bullet train is very convenient. Nearby cities like Jingdezhen and Huangshan are about a half-hour train ride away. Shanghai is 2-3 hours, and Beijing is 7 hours. From Wuyuan, it's a one-hour drive to Huangling Village. If you are planning a spring outing, see our 3-Day Wuyuan Spring Tour