ID: cdf0b562cc6430a
Title: Guilin Tours 2025: Beyond the Ordinary with a Local Expert
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/guilin/tours.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Private, Tailor-Made Guilin Tours — Expertly Created for You Guilin's karst landscape and idyllic countryside are a picture of timeless beauty. In addition to the natural beauty, you can also immerse yourself in cultural experiences and outdoor adventures in Guilin. Traveling with China Highlights, you will have a true sense of classic rural China from the days when your great-grandparents were but children. See the rural scenery of grazing water buffalos, farmers working in their fields, and small villages with old buildings set among green karst hills. Cycle on an off-the-beaten-path country road, which most travelers don't know. And experience the lives of locals in a Yao village. Based on our purpose of creating a real connection with the beauty of a destination, we have carefully crafted the following Guilin tours to explore all the highlights in and around Guilin. All our private Guilin tours are flexible and can be customized to suit your budget and interests. Best Guilin Tours for 2025 The following are the top 4 best-selling tours. They include the essence of Guilin. While enjoying the scenery, you can also visit local residents' homes to learn about authentic rural China. Alternatively, you can take a different path to discover hidden beauties. A Song of Countryside 6-Day Guilin, Longsheng & Yangshuo Relaxation View More The Landscape in Painting 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery View More The Essence of Guilin 3-Day The Essence of Guilin View More Find the Hidden Paintings in "God's Gallery" 5-Day Guilin Off-the-Beaten-Path Tour View More Private Guilin Tours Guilin not only has stunning karst hills and rivers but also caves, terraced fields, ethnic minority villages, and unique cuisine. You can choose different ways to explore the beauty of Guilin. Whether it's hiking, biking, photography, or a leisurely vacation with family, you can find a suitable option in the following tours. A Memorable Li River Cruise Tour 1-Day Li River Cruise and Yangshuo Tour View More Ancient and Scenic Guilin 5-Day Guilin, Ling Canal, Xingping and Yangshuo Tour View More Endless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family Tour View More Summer Fun in the Karst Landscape 5-Day Dynamic Guilin and Yangshuo Tour View More Real Interaction with Idyllic Guilin 5-Day Guilin Tour with Moderate Hiking View More Cycle through Ink Painting Landscapes 5-Day Picturesque Guilin Biking Tour View More Catch the Exclusive Beauties of Guilin 6-Day Guilin Photography Tour View More Outdoor Fun in Famous Guilin 7-Day Guilin Autumn School Trip View More Top China Tours including Guilin Guilin, as a representative of cities in the southern part of China, is often combined with historically and culturally rich cities in the north, such as Beijing and Xi'an, as well as prosperous cities in the central region, like Hangzhou and Shanghai. It is also close to famous destinations such as Yunnan, Chengdu, and Zhangjiajie. You can get some inspiration from the following sample tours. Family Happiness 11-Day Beijing - Xi'an - Guilin - Shanghai View More Ancient China and the Unique Landscape 11-Day Hong Kong - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More The Best Choice for Nature Lovers 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Guilin - Zhangjiajie - Shanghai View More Riches of China 13-day Shanghai - Suzhou - Hangzhou - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More Guilin Side Trips The following are combined itineraries of Guilin and surrounding cities, suitable for visitors with limited time. Guilin has convenient transportation, with high-speed rail reaching many cities within 4 hours. If you don't find a suitable tour among the following ones, please get in touch with us so we can customize one for you. The Busting City and Rural Area of China 6-Day Hong Kong and Guilin Highlights Tour View More Karst Scenery and Minority Culture 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Guizhou Relaxation Tour View More The Wonder of Limestone and Granite 9-Day Guilin and Huangshan Photography Tour View More Grandest China Rivers 6-Day Guilin and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More Private, Tailor-Made Guilin Tours — Expertly Created for You Guilin's karst landscape and idyllic countryside are a picture of timeless beauty. In addition to the natural beauty, you can also immerse yourself in cultural experiences and outdoor adventures in Guilin. Traveling with China Highlights, you will have a true sense of classic rural China from the days when your great-grandparents were but children. See the rural scenery of grazing water buffalos, farmers working in their fields, and small villages with old buildings set among green karst hills. Cycle on an off-the-beaten-path country road, which most travelers don't know. And experience the lives of locals in a Yao village. Based on our purpose of creating a real connection with the beauty of a destination, we have carefully crafted the following Guilin tours to explore all the highlights in and around Guilin. All our private Guilin tours are flexible and can be customized to suit your budget and interests. Best Guilin Tours for 2025 The following are the top 4 best-selling tours. They include the essence of Guilin. While enjoying the scenery, you can also visit local residents' homes to learn about authentic rural China. Alternatively, you can take a different path to discover hidden beauties. A Song of Countryside 6-Day Guilin, Longsheng & Yangshuo Relaxation View More The Landscape in Painting 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery View More The Essence of Guilin 3-Day The Essence of Guilin View More Find the Hidden Paintings in "God's Gallery" 5-Day Guilin Off-the-Beaten-Path Tour View More A Song of Countryside 6-Day Guilin, Longsheng & Yangshuo Relaxation View More A Song of Countryside 6-Day Guilin, Longsheng & Yangshuo Relaxation View More The Landscape in Painting 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery View More The Landscape in Painting 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery View More The Essence of Guilin 3-Day The Essence of Guilin View More The Essence of Guilin 3-Day The Essence of Guilin View More Find the Hidden Paintings in "God's Gallery" 5-Day Guilin Off-the-Beaten-Path Tour View More Find the Hidden Paintings in "God's Gallery" 5-Day Guilin Off-the-Beaten-Path Tour View More Guilin not only has stunning karst hills and rivers but also caves, terraced fields, ethnic minority villages, and unique cuisine. You can choose different ways to explore the beauty of Guilin. Whether it's hiking, biking, photography, or a leisurely vacation with family, you can find a suitable option in the following tours. A Memorable Li River Cruise Tour 1-Day Li River Cruise and Yangshuo Tour View More Ancient and Scenic Guilin 5-Day Guilin, Ling Canal, Xingping and Yangshuo Tour View More Endless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family Tour View More Summer Fun in the Karst Landscape 5-Day Dynamic Guilin and Yangshuo Tour View More A Memorable Li River Cruise Tour 1-Day Li River Cruise and Yangshuo Tour View More A Memorable Li River Cruise Tour 1-Day Li River Cruise and Yangshuo Tour View More Ancient and Scenic Guilin 5-Day Guilin, Ling Canal, Xingping and Yangshuo Tour View More Ancient and Scenic Guilin 5-Day Guilin, Ling Canal, Xingping and Yangshuo Tour View More Endless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family Tour View More Endless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family Tour View More Summer Fun in the Karst Landscape 5-Day Dynamic Guilin and Yangshuo Tour View More Summer Fun in the Karst Landscape 5-Day Dynamic Guilin and Yangshuo Tour View More Real Interaction with Idyllic Guilin 5-Day Guilin Tour with Moderate Hiking View More Cycle through Ink Painting Landscapes 5-Day Picturesque Guilin Biking Tour View More Catch the Exclusive Beauties of Guilin 6-Day Guilin Photography Tour View More Outdoor Fun in Famous Guilin 7-Day Guilin Autumn School Trip View More Real Interaction with Idyllic Guilin 5-Day Guilin Tour with Moderate Hiking View More Real Interaction with Idyllic Guilin 5-Day Guilin Tour with Moderate Hiking View More Cycle through Ink Painting Landscapes 5-Day Picturesque Guilin Biking Tour View More Cycle through Ink Painting Landscapes 5-Day Picturesque Guilin Biking Tour View More Catch the Exclusive Beauties of Guilin 6-Day Guilin Photography Tour View More Catch the Exclusive Beauties of Guilin 6-Day Guilin Photography Tour View More Outdoor Fun in Famous Guilin 7-Day Guilin Autumn School Trip View More Outdoor Fun in Famous Guilin 7-Day Guilin Autumn School Trip View More Top China Tours including Guilin Guilin, as a representative of cities in the southern part of China, is often combined with historically and culturally rich cities in the north, such as Beijing and Xi'an, as well as prosperous cities in the central region, like Hangzhou and Shanghai. It is also close to famous destinations such as Yunnan, Chengdu, and Zhangjiajie. You can get some inspiration from the following sample tours. Family Happiness 11-Day Beijing - Xi'an - Guilin - Shanghai View More Ancient China and the Unique Landscape 11-Day Hong Kong - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More The Best Choice for Nature Lovers 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Guilin - Zhangjiajie - Shanghai View More Riches of China 13-day Shanghai - Suzhou - Hangzhou - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More Family Happiness 11-Day Beijing - Xi'an - Guilin - Shanghai View More 11-Day Beijing - Xi'an - Guilin - Shanghai View More Ancient China and the Unique Landscape 11-Day Hong Kong - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More Ancient China and the Unique Landscape 11-Day Hong Kong - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More The Best Choice for Nature Lovers 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Guilin - Zhangjiajie - Shanghai View More The Best Choice for Nature Lovers 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Guilin - Zhangjiajie - Shanghai View More Riches of China 13-day Shanghai - Suzhou - Hangzhou - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More 13-day Shanghai - Suzhou - Hangzhou - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More The following are combined itineraries of Guilin and surrounding cities, suitable for visitors with limited time. Guilin has convenient transportation, with high-speed rail reaching many cities within 4 hours. If you don't find a suitable tour among the following ones, please get in touch with us so we can customize one for you. The Busting City and Rural Area of China 6-Day Hong Kong and Guilin Highlights Tour View More Karst Scenery and Minority Culture 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Guizhou Relaxation Tour View More The Wonder of Limestone and Granite 9-Day Guilin and Huangshan Photography Tour View More Grandest China Rivers 6-Day Guilin and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More The Busting City and Rural Area of China 6-Day Hong Kong and Guilin Highlights Tour View More The Busting City and Rural Area of China 6-Day Hong Kong and Guilin Highlights Tour View More Karst Scenery and Minority Culture 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Guizhou Relaxation Tour View More Karst Scenery and Minority Culture 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Guizhou Relaxation Tour View More The Wonder of Limestone and Granite 9-Day Guilin and Huangshan Photography Tour View More The Wonder of Limestone and Granite 9-Day Guilin and Huangshan Photography Tour View More Grandest China Rivers 6-Day Guilin and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More Grandest China Rivers 6-Day Guilin and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More