ID: 72017737175cd74a
Title: Great Wall of China Tours: from Day Trips to Hiking and Camping
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/greatwall/tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The Great Wall of China is one of the greatest sights in the world. A Great Wall tour is a must for most first China trips. Along this super-long wall, Beijing is the top destination for seeing well-maintained and abundant Great Wall relics of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644). There are eight sections close to Beijing: Badaling, Mutianyu, Jinshanling, Jiankou, Simatai... As the choice of Australian Geographic for their tours to the Great Wall of China, we are confident we can offer you a world-class opportunity to see the majestic Great Wall by day, and also stunning views of the Great Wall by night, to enjoy a relaxing walk on restored Great Wall sections or explore the wild, original, and unrepaired Wall. Our Great Wall of China trips can all be customized, and they are private.If you are looking for the perfect Great Wall of China experience — well-planned and executed, bringing history to life, and tailored to your requirements — you will love our Great Wall tours. Beijing Great Wall Tours Great Wall of China Hiking Great Wall Camping China Tours with the Great Wall Beijing Great Wall Tours These are the best Great Wall tours from Beijing based on our customers' feedback. They range from classic Great Wall tours for first-time visitors to Great Wall layover tours from Capital Airport and relaxing, classy Great Wall night tours. Time-Smart Great Wall Layover Exploration 1-Day Beijing Great Wall Layover Tour Maximize your limited time Visit the Great Wall from Capital Airport View More Capture the Spirit of Beijing 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with the Mutianyu Great Wall Skip the ticket lines at the Forbidden Citys Walk on the Great Wall at Mutianyu View More Great Wall Beauty & Relaxation — Day & Night 2-Day Great Wall Mutianyu-Simatai Day-Night Tour See the Wall by day and night at its most enhanced Discover beautiful Gubei Water Town View More Great Wall of China Hiking The following itineraries are designed for those who want to hike on the Great Wall of China. They are flexible and can be customized to suit your budget and interests. Hike the Picturesque Great Wall at Jinshanling 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour See both wild and repaired Great Wall Enjoy walking on the most photogenic Wall View More Conquer the Most Challenging Great Wall Section 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Conquer the wild Great Wall at Jiankou Enjoy the restored glory of the Great Wall at Mutianyu View More Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking 3-Day Jiankou to Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Discovery Tour Discover the 3 most popular hiking sections Stay overnight in beautiful Gubei Water Town View More Great Wall Camping The following itineraries are designed for people who want to have a unique Great Wall camping experience — enjoy a sleepover on the Wall with a BBQ meal and great views including sunset and sunrise... They are flexible and can be customized to suit your budget and interests. Awesome Great Wall Camping 2-Day Jiankou Wild Great Wall Camping Tour Enjoy a BBQ dinner on rugged Great Wall Sleep under the stars on aged ramparts View More Camp on the Great Wall Like an Imperial Soldier 2-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Walk on incredible waterside Great Wall Sleep by a Great Wall watchtower View More A Pilgrimage Along the Great Wall's Defenses 5-Day Badaling to Huangyaguan Great Wall Hiking Tour Discover the Great Wall in depth Enjoy amazing sunsets and sunrises from the Wall View More China Tours with the Great Wall No one wants to miss the Great Wall on their (first) China tour. Our most popular China tours all include visiting the Great Wall of China. Don't worry if you can't find an itinerary to fit your needs. All our tours can be tailored to suit you. Just tell us your ideas, and we will create a tour that is uniquely yours. Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Guilin–Shanghai Tour Historical sites and idyllic countryside Day and night tour of the Great Wall View More Land of Pandas 13-Day China Essence and Panda Tour Explore the family-friendly Mutianyu Great Wall Adorable giant pandas and Yangze River Cruise View More China's Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Tour Visit China's most popular 3 destinations The many historical heritage sites include the Great Wall View More The Great Wall of China is one of the greatest sights in the world. A Great Wall tour is a must for most first China trips. Along this super-long wall, Beijing is the top destination for seeing well-maintained and abundant Great Wall relics of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644). There are eight sections close to Beijing: Badaling, Mutianyu, Jinshanling, Jiankou, Simatai... As the choice of Australian Geographic for their tours to the Great Wall of China, we are confident we can offer you a world-class opportunity to see the majestic Great Wall by day, and also stunning views of the Great Wall by night, to enjoy a relaxing walk on restored Great Wall sections or explore the wild, original, and unrepaired Wall. Our Great Wall of China trips can all be customized, and they are private.If you are looking for the perfect Great Wall of China experience — well-planned and executed, bringing history to life, and tailored to your requirements — you will love our Great Wall tours. • Beijing Great Wall Tours • Great Wall of China Hiking • Great Wall Camping • China Tours with the Great Wall Beijing Great Wall Tours These are the best Great Wall tours from Beijing based on our customers' feedback. They range from classic Great Wall tours for first-time visitors to Great Wall layover tours from Capital Airport and relaxing, classy Great Wall night tours. Time-Smart Great Wall Layover Exploration 1-Day Beijing Great Wall Layover Tour Maximize your limited time Visit the Great Wall from Capital Airport View More Capture the Spirit of Beijing 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with the Mutianyu Great Wall Skip the ticket lines at the Forbidden Citys Walk on the Great Wall at Mutianyu View More Great Wall Beauty & Relaxation — Day & Night 2-Day Great Wall Mutianyu-Simatai Day-Night Tour See the Wall by day and night at its most enhanced Discover beautiful Gubei Water Town View More Time-Smart Great Wall Layover Exploration 1-Day Beijing Great Wall Layover Tour Maximize your limited time Visit the Great Wall from Capital Airport View More Time-Smart Great Wall Layover Exploration 1-Day Beijing Great Wall Layover Tour Maximize your limited time Visit the Great Wall from Capital Airport View More • Maximize your limited time • Visit the Great Wall from Capital Airport Capture the Spirit of Beijing 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with the Mutianyu Great Wall Skip the ticket lines at the Forbidden Citys Walk on the Great Wall at Mutianyu View More Capture the Spirit of Beijing 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with the Mutianyu Great Wall Skip the ticket lines at the Forbidden Citys Walk on the Great Wall at Mutianyu View More • Skip the ticket lines at the Forbidden Citys • Walk on the Great Wall at Mutianyu Great Wall Beauty & Relaxation — Day & Night 2-Day Great Wall Mutianyu-Simatai Day-Night Tour See the Wall by day and night at its most enhanced Discover beautiful Gubei Water Town View More Great Wall Beauty & Relaxation — Day & Night 2-Day Great Wall Mutianyu-Simatai Day-Night Tour See the Wall by day and night at its most enhanced Discover beautiful Gubei Water Town View More • See the Wall by day and night at its most enhanced • Discover beautiful Gubei Water Town Great Wall of China Hiking The following itineraries are designed for those who want to hike on the Great Wall of China. They are flexible and can be customized to suit your budget and interests. Hike the Picturesque Great Wall at Jinshanling 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour See both wild and repaired Great Wall Enjoy walking on the most photogenic Wall View More Conquer the Most Challenging Great Wall Section 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Conquer the wild Great Wall at Jiankou Enjoy the restored glory of the Great Wall at Mutianyu View More Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking 3-Day Jiankou to Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Discovery Tour Discover the 3 most popular hiking sections Stay overnight in beautiful Gubei Water Town View More Hike the Picturesque Great Wall at Jinshanling 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour See both wild and repaired Great Wall Enjoy walking on the most photogenic Wall View More Hike the Picturesque Great Wall at Jinshanling 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour See both wild and repaired Great Wall Enjoy walking on the most photogenic Wall View More • See both wild and repaired Great Wall • Enjoy walking on the most photogenic Wall Conquer the Most Challenging Great Wall Section 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Conquer the wild Great Wall at Jiankou Enjoy the restored glory of the Great Wall at Mutianyu View More Conquer the Most Challenging Great Wall Section 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Conquer the wild Great Wall at Jiankou Enjoy the restored glory of the Great Wall at Mutianyu View More • Conquer the wild Great Wall at Jiankou • Enjoy the restored glory of the Great Wall at Mutianyu Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking 3-Day Jiankou to Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Discovery Tour Discover the 3 most popular hiking sections Stay overnight in beautiful Gubei Water Town View More Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking 3-Day Jiankou to Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Discovery Tour Discover the 3 most popular hiking sections Stay overnight in beautiful Gubei Water Town View More • Discover the 3 most popular hiking sections • Stay overnight in beautiful Gubei Water Town The following itineraries are designed for people who want to have a unique Great Wall camping experience — enjoy a sleepover on the Wall with a BBQ meal and great views including sunset and sunrise... They are flexible and can be customized to suit your budget and interests. Awesome Great Wall Camping 2-Day Jiankou Wild Great Wall Camping Tour Enjoy a BBQ dinner on rugged Great Wall Sleep under the stars on aged ramparts View More Camp on the Great Wall Like an Imperial Soldier 2-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Walk on incredible waterside Great Wall Sleep by a Great Wall watchtower View More A Pilgrimage Along the Great Wall's Defenses 5-Day Badaling to Huangyaguan Great Wall Hiking Tour Discover the Great Wall in depth Enjoy amazing sunsets and sunrises from the Wall View More Awesome Great Wall Camping 2-Day Jiankou Wild Great Wall Camping Tour Enjoy a BBQ dinner on rugged Great Wall Sleep under the stars on aged ramparts View More Awesome Great Wall Camping 2-Day Jiankou Wild Great Wall Camping Tour Enjoy a BBQ dinner on rugged Great Wall Sleep under the stars on aged ramparts View More • Enjoy a BBQ dinner on rugged Great Wall • Sleep under the stars on aged ramparts Camp on the Great Wall Like an Imperial Soldier 2-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Walk on incredible waterside Great Wall Sleep by a Great Wall watchtower View More Camp on the Great Wall Like an Imperial Soldier 2-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Walk on incredible waterside Great Wall Sleep by a Great Wall watchtower View More • Walk on incredible waterside Great Wall • Sleep by a Great Wall watchtower A Pilgrimage Along the Great Wall's Defenses 5-Day Badaling to Huangyaguan Great Wall Hiking Tour Discover the Great Wall in depth Enjoy amazing sunsets and sunrises from the Wall View More A Pilgrimage Along the Great Wall's Defenses 5-Day Badaling to Huangyaguan Great Wall Hiking Tour Discover the Great Wall in depth Enjoy amazing sunsets and sunrises from the Wall View More • Discover the Great Wall in depth • Enjoy amazing sunsets and sunrises from the Wall China Tours with the Great Wall No one wants to miss the Great Wall on their (first) China tour. Our most popular China tours all include visiting the Great Wall of China. Don't worry if you can't find an itinerary to fit your needs. All our tours can be tailored to suit you. Just tell us your ideas, and we will create a tour that is uniquely yours. Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Guilin–Shanghai Tour Historical sites and idyllic countryside Day and night tour of the Great Wall View More Land of Pandas 13-Day China Essence and Panda Tour Explore the family-friendly Mutianyu Great Wall Adorable giant pandas and Yangze River Cruise View More China's Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Tour Visit China's most popular 3 destinations The many historical heritage sites include the Great Wall View More Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Guilin–Shanghai Tour Historical sites and idyllic countryside Day and night tour of the Great Wall View More 11-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Guilin–Shanghai Tour Historical sites and idyllic countryside Day and night tour of the Great Wall View More • Historical sites and idyllic countryside • Day and night tour of the Great Wall Land of Pandas 13-Day China Essence and Panda Tour Explore the family-friendly Mutianyu Great Wall Adorable giant pandas and Yangze River Cruise View More 13-Day China Essence and Panda Tour Explore the family-friendly Mutianyu Great Wall Adorable giant pandas and Yangze River Cruise View More • Explore the family-friendly Mutianyu Great Wall • Adorable giant pandas and Yangze River Cruise China's Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Tour Visit China's most popular 3 destinations The many historical heritage sites include the Great Wall View More China's Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Tour Visit China's most popular 3 destinations The many historical heritage sites include the Great Wall View More • Visit China's most popular 3 destinations • The many historical heritage sites include the Great Wall Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers' Map of the Great Wall of China near Beijing The Great Wall mainly covers 15 provincial-level areas: Beijing, Tianjin, Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Hubei, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Gansu, and Qinghai. The most popular sections to visit are around Beijing's north and east. See the listed top ten sections below to make a simple comparison and decide which section to visit. Great Wall of China Travel Information 1. Which Great Wall Section I Should Visit? It depends what you want to do: Badaling and Juyongguan: Partly wheelchair-friendly and close to Beijing, these two sections are the most popular among Chinese tourists. Mutianyu: Fully-restored with cable car access, it's the most popular among foreign travelers and recommended for customers who are tight on time (day tours, or layover tours), or for those who want an easy walk. The Great Wall toboggan is only available in this section. Recommended tour: 1-Day Beijing Highligts Tour with Mutianyu Great Wall Jinshanling: Half-repaired, it's the most photogenic section with very picturesque scenery and recommended to customers who would like to do some moderate Great Wall hiking. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Jiankou: The steepest section is now part-repaired (the west part was repaired between 2015 and 2019; the east part is still original Great Wall ruins.) Travelers seeking a challenging experience often like it. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Simatai: Its wild wall is the only section lit up at night, so it is recommended to customers who would like to have a different experience and appreciate stunning night views of the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 4-Day Beijing Highlights and Great Wall Night Tour Gubeikou: also wild, but not very steep, it is the most rural and historically interesting section. Recommended tour: 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking Huanghuacheng: half-repaired, located by a lake/reservoir, it is recommended for overnight camping on the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 2-Day Huanghuacheng Lakeside Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Huangyaguan: half-repaired, located in Ji County of Tianjin City, the annual Great Wall Marathon race site is recommended for a time-smart layover tour from Tianjin Cruise port and as part of an in-depth Great Wall hiking tour. Recommended tour: 5-Day Huangyaguan to Huanghuacheng Great Wall Hiking Tour 2. How long would it take to walk on the Great Wall of China? For sightseeing: half a day or one day is enough to visit one section of the Great Wall, for example, visiting the Mutianyu Great Wall section from Beijing with our 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with a Walk on the Great Wall. For a more all-encompassing Great Wall of China hiking tour from Beijing: 3–5 days is recommended for discovering 3–6 different sections. For example: our 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking or 5-Day "Musical" to "Lakeside" Great Wall Hikes . For walking the entire length of the Great Wall of China:3–5 months is needed to follow the main line, but 17 months at least are needed to walk the full length of all Great Wall from Jiayuguan to Hushan. 3. Is It Possible to Have a Great Wall Day Trip from Hong Kong? No. time is not sufficient for a day trip from Hong Kong to the Great Wall. A layover day trip to the Great Wall of China from a Beijing airport or Tianjin Cruise Port is possible however. Recommended tour: Great Wall Day Trip from Beijing More Information about the Great Wall of China Great Wall Tour Planning Best Times to Visit the Great Wall What to Pack for Great Wall Trips 5 Interesting Things to Do on the Great Wall Besides Hiking Famous Great Wall Sections Badaling vs Mutianyu: Which One Is Better for Visiting The Great Wall at Jiankou Jinshanling's Great Wall Section Great Wall History and Culture The Great Wall of the Ming Dynasty How the Great Wall Was Built — Materials and Methods Travelers' Map of the Great Wall of China near Beijing The Great Wall mainly covers 15 provincial-level areas: Beijing, Tianjin, Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Hubei, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Gansu, and Qinghai. The most popular sections to visit are around Beijing's north and east. See the listed top ten sections below to make a simple comparison and decide which section to visit. Great Wall of China Travel Information 1. Which Great Wall Section I Should Visit? It depends what you want to do: Badaling and Juyongguan: Partly wheelchair-friendly and close to Beijing, these two sections are the most popular among Chinese tourists. Mutianyu: Fully-restored with cable car access, it's the most popular among foreign travelers and recommended for customers who are tight on time (day tours, or layover tours), or for those who want an easy walk. The Great Wall toboggan is only available in this section. Recommended tour: 1-Day Beijing Highligts Tour with Mutianyu Great Wall Jinshanling: Half-repaired, it's the most photogenic section with very picturesque scenery and recommended to customers who would like to do some moderate Great Wall hiking. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Jiankou: The steepest section is now part-repaired (the west part was repaired between 2015 and 2019; the east part is still original Great Wall ruins.) Travelers seeking a challenging experience often like it. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Simatai: Its wild wall is the only section lit up at night, so it is recommended to customers who would like to have a different experience and appreciate stunning night views of the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 4-Day Beijing Highlights and Great Wall Night Tour Gubeikou: also wild, but not very steep, it is the most rural and historically interesting section. Recommended tour: 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking Huanghuacheng: half-repaired, located by a lake/reservoir, it is recommended for overnight camping on the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 2-Day Huanghuacheng Lakeside Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Huangyaguan: half-repaired, located in Ji County of Tianjin City, the annual Great Wall Marathon race site is recommended for a time-smart layover tour from Tianjin Cruise port and as part of an in-depth Great Wall hiking tour. Recommended tour: 5-Day Huangyaguan to Huanghuacheng Great Wall Hiking Tour 2. How long would it take to walk on the Great Wall of China? For sightseeing: half a day or one day is enough to visit one section of the Great Wall, for example, visiting the Mutianyu Great Wall section from Beijing with our 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with a Walk on the Great Wall. For a more all-encompassing Great Wall of China hiking tour from Beijing: 3–5 days is recommended for discovering 3–6 different sections. For example: our 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking or 5-Day "Musical" to "Lakeside" Great Wall Hikes . For walking the entire length of the Great Wall of China:3–5 months is needed to follow the main line, but 17 months at least are needed to walk the full length of all Great Wall from Jiayuguan to Hushan. 3. Is It Possible to Have a Great Wall Day Trip from Hong Kong? No. time is not sufficient for a day trip from Hong Kong to the Great Wall. A layover day trip to the Great Wall of China from a Beijing airport or Tianjin Cruise Port is possible however. Recommended tour: Great Wall Day Trip from Beijing More Information about the Great Wall of China Great Wall Tour Planning Best Times to Visit the Great Wall What to Pack for Great Wall Trips 5 Interesting Things to Do on the Great Wall Besides Hiking Famous Great Wall Sections Badaling vs Mutianyu: Which One Is Better for Visiting The Great Wall at Jiankou Jinshanling's Great Wall Section Great Wall History and Culture The Great Wall of the Ming Dynasty How the Great Wall Was Built — Materials and Methods 1. Which Great Wall Section I Should Visit? It depends what you want to do: Badaling and Juyongguan: Partly wheelchair-friendly and close to Beijing, these two sections are the most popular among Chinese tourists. Mutianyu: Fully-restored with cable car access, it's the most popular among foreign travelers and recommended for customers who are tight on time (day tours, or layover tours), or for those who want an easy walk. The Great Wall toboggan is only available in this section. Recommended tour: 1-Day Beijing Highligts Tour with Mutianyu Great Wall Jinshanling: Half-repaired, it's the most photogenic section with very picturesque scenery and recommended to customers who would like to do some moderate Great Wall hiking. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Jiankou: The steepest section is now part-repaired (the west part was repaired between 2015 and 2019; the east part is still original Great Wall ruins.) Travelers seeking a challenging experience often like it. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Simatai: Its wild wall is the only section lit up at night, so it is recommended to customers who would like to have a different experience and appreciate stunning night views of the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 4-Day Beijing Highlights and Great Wall Night Tour Gubeikou: also wild, but not very steep, it is the most rural and historically interesting section. Recommended tour: 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking Huanghuacheng: half-repaired, located by a lake/reservoir, it is recommended for overnight camping on the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 2-Day Huanghuacheng Lakeside Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Huangyaguan: half-repaired, located in Ji County of Tianjin City, the annual Great Wall Marathon race site is recommended for a time-smart layover tour from Tianjin Cruise port and as part of an in-depth Great Wall hiking tour. Recommended tour: 5-Day Huangyaguan to Huanghuacheng Great Wall Hiking Tour 1. Which Great Wall Section I Should Visit? It depends what you want to do: Badaling and Juyongguan: Partly wheelchair-friendly and close to Beijing, these two sections are the most popular among Chinese tourists. Mutianyu: Fully-restored with cable car access, it's the most popular among foreign travelers and recommended for customers who are tight on time (day tours, or layover tours), or for those who want an easy walk. The Great Wall toboggan is only available in this section. Recommended tour: 1-Day Beijing Highligts Tour with Mutianyu Great Wall Jinshanling: Half-repaired, it's the most photogenic section with very picturesque scenery and recommended to customers who would like to do some moderate Great Wall hiking. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Jiankou: The steepest section is now part-repaired (the west part was repaired between 2015 and 2019; the east part is still original Great Wall ruins.) Travelers seeking a challenging experience often like it. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Simatai: Its wild wall is the only section lit up at night, so it is recommended to customers who would like to have a different experience and appreciate stunning night views of the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 4-Day Beijing Highlights and Great Wall Night Tour Gubeikou: also wild, but not very steep, it is the most rural and historically interesting section. Recommended tour: 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking Huanghuacheng: half-repaired, located by a lake/reservoir, it is recommended for overnight camping on the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 2-Day Huanghuacheng Lakeside Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Huangyaguan: half-repaired, located in Ji County of Tianjin City, the annual Great Wall Marathon race site is recommended for a time-smart layover tour from Tianjin Cruise port and as part of an in-depth Great Wall hiking tour. Recommended tour: 5-Day Huangyaguan to Huanghuacheng Great Wall Hiking Tour It depends what you want to do: Badaling and Juyongguan: Partly wheelchair-friendly and close to Beijing, these two sections are the most popular among Chinese tourists. Mutianyu: Fully-restored with cable car access, it's the most popular among foreign travelers and recommended for customers who are tight on time (day tours, or layover tours), or for those who want an easy walk. The Great Wall toboggan is only available in this section. Recommended tour: 1-Day Beijing Highligts Tour with Mutianyu Great Wall Jinshanling: Half-repaired, it's the most photogenic section with very picturesque scenery and recommended to customers who would like to do some moderate Great Wall hiking. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Jiankou: The steepest section is now part-repaired (the west part was repaired between 2015 and 2019; the east part is still original Great Wall ruins.) Travelers seeking a challenging experience often like it. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Simatai: Its wild wall is the only section lit up at night, so it is recommended to customers who would like to have a different experience and appreciate stunning night views of the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 4-Day Beijing Highlights and Great Wall Night Tour Gubeikou: also wild, but not very steep, it is the most rural and historically interesting section. Recommended tour: 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking Huanghuacheng: half-repaired, located by a lake/reservoir, it is recommended for overnight camping on the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 2-Day Huanghuacheng Lakeside Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Huangyaguan: half-repaired, located in Ji County of Tianjin City, the annual Great Wall Marathon race site is recommended for a time-smart layover tour from Tianjin Cruise port and as part of an in-depth Great Wall hiking tour. Recommended tour: 5-Day Huangyaguan to Huanghuacheng Great Wall Hiking Tour It depends what you want to do: Badaling and Juyongguan: Partly wheelchair-friendly and close to Beijing, these two sections are the most popular among Chinese tourists. Mutianyu: Fully-restored with cable car access, it's the most popular among foreign travelers and recommended for customers who are tight on time (day tours, or layover tours), or for those who want an easy walk. The Great Wall toboggan is only available in this section. Recommended tour: 1-Day Beijing Highligts Tour with Mutianyu Great Wall Jinshanling: Half-repaired, it's the most photogenic section with very picturesque scenery and recommended to customers who would like to do some moderate Great Wall hiking. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking Tour Jiankou: The steepest section is now part-repaired (the west part was repaired between 2015 and 2019; the east part is still original Great Wall ruins.) Travelers seeking a challenging experience often like it. Recommended tour: 1-Day Jiankou to Mutianyu Great Wall Hiking Tour Simatai: Its wild wall is the only section lit up at night, so it is recommended to customers who would like to have a different experience and appreciate stunning night views of the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 4-Day Beijing Highlights and Great Wall Night Tour Gubeikou: also wild, but not very steep, it is the most rural and historically interesting section. Recommended tour: 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking Huanghuacheng: half-repaired, located by a lake/reservoir, it is recommended for overnight camping on the Great Wall. Recommended tour: 2-Day Huanghuacheng Lakeside Great Wall Hiking and Camping Tour Huangyaguan: half-repaired, located in Ji County of Tianjin City, the annual Great Wall Marathon race site is recommended for a time-smart layover tour from Tianjin Cruise port and as part of an in-depth Great Wall hiking tour. Recommended tour: 5-Day Huangyaguan to Huanghuacheng Great Wall Hiking Tour 2. How long would it take to walk on the Great Wall of China? For sightseeing: half a day or one day is enough to visit one section of the Great Wall, for example, visiting the Mutianyu Great Wall section from Beijing with our 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with a Walk on the Great Wall. For a more all-encompassing Great Wall of China hiking tour from Beijing: 3–5 days is recommended for discovering 3–6 different sections. For example: our 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking or 5-Day "Musical" to "Lakeside" Great Wall Hikes . For walking the entire length of the Great Wall of China:3–5 months is needed to follow the main line, but 17 months at least are needed to walk the full length of all Great Wall from Jiayuguan to Hushan. 2. How long would it take to walk on the Great Wall of China? For sightseeing: half a day or one day is enough to visit one section of the Great Wall, for example, visiting the Mutianyu Great Wall section from Beijing with our 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with a Walk on the Great Wall. For a more all-encompassing Great Wall of China hiking tour from Beijing: 3–5 days is recommended for discovering 3–6 different sections. For example: our 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking or 5-Day "Musical" to "Lakeside" Great Wall Hikes . For walking the entire length of the Great Wall of China:3–5 months is needed to follow the main line, but 17 months at least are needed to walk the full length of all Great Wall from Jiayuguan to Hushan. For sightseeing: half a day or one day is enough to visit one section of the Great Wall, for example, visiting the Mutianyu Great Wall section from Beijing with our 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with a Walk on the Great Wall. For a more all-encompassing Great Wall of China hiking tour from Beijing: 3–5 days is recommended for discovering 3–6 different sections. For example: our 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking or 5-Day "Musical" to "Lakeside" Great Wall Hikes . For walking the entire length of the Great Wall of China:3–5 months is needed to follow the main line, but 17 months at least are needed to walk the full length of all Great Wall from Jiayuguan to Hushan. For sightseeing: half a day or one day is enough to visit one section of the Great Wall, for example, visiting the Mutianyu Great Wall section from Beijing with our 1-Day Beijing Highlights Tour with a Walk on the Great Wall. For a more all-encompassing Great Wall of China hiking tour from Beijing: 3–5 days is recommended for discovering 3–6 different sections. For example: our 3-Day Wild and Wonderful Great Wall Hiking or 5-Day "Musical" to "Lakeside" Great Wall Hikes . For walking the entire length of the Great Wall of China:3–5 months is needed to follow the main line, but 17 months at least are needed to walk the full length of all Great Wall from Jiayuguan to Hushan. 3. Is It Possible to Have a Great Wall Day Trip from Hong Kong? No. time is not sufficient for a day trip from Hong Kong to the Great Wall. A layover day trip to the Great Wall of China from a Beijing airport or Tianjin Cruise Port is possible however. Recommended tour: Great Wall Day Trip from Beijing 3. Is It Possible to Have a Great Wall Day Trip from Hong Kong? No. time is not sufficient for a day trip from Hong Kong to the Great Wall. A layover day trip to the Great Wall of China from a Beijing airport or Tianjin Cruise Port is possible however. Recommended tour: Great Wall Day Trip from Beijing No. time is not sufficient for a day trip from Hong Kong to the Great Wall. A layover day trip to the Great Wall of China from a Beijing airport or Tianjin Cruise Port is possible however. Recommended tour: Great Wall Day Trip from Beijing No. time is not sufficient for a day trip from Hong Kong to the Great Wall. A layover day trip to the Great Wall of China from a Beijing airport or Tianjin Cruise Port is possible however. Recommended tour: Great Wall Day Trip from Beijing More Information about the Great Wall of China Great Wall Tour Planning Best Times to Visit the Great Wall What to Pack for Great Wall Trips 5 Interesting Things to Do on the Great Wall Besides Hiking Famous Great Wall Sections Badaling vs Mutianyu: Which One Is Better for Visiting The Great Wall at Jiankou Jinshanling's Great Wall Section Great Wall History and Culture The Great Wall of the Ming Dynasty How the Great Wall Was Built — Materials and Methods Great Wall Tour Planning Best Times to Visit the Great Wall What to Pack for Great Wall Trips 5 Interesting Things to Do on the Great Wall Besides Hiking Great Wall Tour Planning Best Times to Visit the Great Wall What to Pack for Great Wall Trips 5 Interesting Things to Do on the Great Wall Besides Hiking • Best Times to Visit the Great Wall • What to Pack for Great Wall Trips • 5 Interesting Things to Do on the Great Wall Besides Hiking Famous Great Wall Sections Badaling vs Mutianyu: Which One Is Better for Visiting The Great Wall at Jiankou Jinshanling's Great Wall Section Famous Great Wall Sections Badaling vs Mutianyu: Which One Is Better for Visiting The Great Wall at Jiankou Jinshanling's Great Wall Section • Badaling vs Mutianyu: Which One Is Better for Visiting • The Great Wall at Jiankou • Jinshanling's Great Wall Section Great Wall History and Culture The Great Wall of the Ming Dynasty How the Great Wall Was Built — Materials and Methods Great Wall History and Culture The Great Wall of the Ming Dynasty How the Great Wall Was Built — Materials and Methods • The Great Wall of the Ming Dynasty • How the Great Wall Was Built — Materials and Methods