ID: 1874a6558d8b800f
Title: 1.5-Hour Panda Style Manicure Experience in Chengdu
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chengdu/1.5-hour-chengdu-panda-manicure.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ As the most well-known and adorable residents in Chengdu, pandas are always the most looked-forward-to and eye-catching superstars. Do you want to bring a "panda" back to your hometown after seeing these adorable pandas? Nail art is a beautiful and gorgeous way to add flair to your look. So why not take a break and enjoy a hand spa with cute panda nail art after your long-time trip? Join our private panda nail art activity, you can not only have pretty panda nails, the English-speaking manicurist will also teach you how to do it by yourself! Tour Highlights VIP treatment for a hand-care spa and pretty manicure. Professional manicurist with simple English-speaking skills do great panda style nails for you. Relax in a clean and comfortable nail salon where is near Kuanzhai Alley in Chengdu Provide on-site service at your hotel within 2nd ring road area of Chengdu. Detailed Itinerary Close All Before Your Day Activity You'll receive a confirmation email with the address of the nail salon, full details and directions to the salon and host's phone number after your booking. If you have any questions, you can contact with the host. Please leave your detail contact information( phone number/ Wechat ID) and what time you will be there at the time of booking, and arrive the salon at your appointed time on that day. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the host. 11:00 - 11:30AMHand Care After arriving at the nail salon, you will be served a cup of green tea. Firstly, the manicurist will do a basic hand care and trim and file your nails to make them neat. Hand care Then choose the nail art type which you like during the hand-care process. There are many panda styles as below for you to choose. If you want other styles instead of pandas, you can ask the manicurist, but some complex styles may have additional charges. Choose the colour Basic styles Complex styles Good to Know: Do not trim your nails too short before, It's better to have more space to work with. We will also provide on-site service at your hotel where is within 2nd ring road area. The extra fee is at US$10 per person. Not recommended for pregnant women. 11:30 –12:00Nail Painting Completing hand caring, the manicurist begins to paint pandas at your nails. During the nail art, just relax or have a pleasant chat with the manicurists. Apply the basecoat and let it to dry completely. Use some nail tools for paiting, like thin-tipped brush, toothpick, striper brush or other implement. When the panda designs are dry, finish with a clear topcoat. Enjoy your manicure Professional manicurist Take a photo with beautiful panda nails 12:00 – 12:30Explain Simple Nail Art After your panda manicure is ready, the manicurist will teach you simple nail paintings, and tell you some knowledge of nail art and nail care at the end. Take wonderful photos with your pretty panda nails and blow up your social networking sites. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Have a great avtivity with us! Price Include: One set of nail package. Professional manicurist. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Extra fee for complex nail styles or on-site service at your hotel. Gratuities. FAQs About This Tour What is the area of the hotels that we can provide on-site service? The hotel should be within the 2nd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to ask your travel advisor for another extra fee. Hotel Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. As the most well-known and adorable residents in Chengdu, pandas are always the most looked-forward-to and eye-catching superstars. Do you want to bring a "panda" back to your hometown after seeing these adorable pandas? Nail art is a beautiful and gorgeous way to add flair to your look. So why not take a break and enjoy a hand spa with cute panda nail art after your long-time trip? Join our private panda nail art activity, you can not only have pretty panda nails, the English-speaking manicurist will also teach you how to do it by yourself! As the most well-known and adorable residents in Chengdu, pandas are always the most looked-forward-to and eye-catching superstars. Do you want to bring a "panda" back to your hometown after seeing these adorable pandas? Nail art is a beautiful and gorgeous way to add flair to your look. So why not take a break and enjoy a hand spa with cute panda nail art after your long-time trip? Join our private panda nail art activity, you can not only have pretty panda nails, the English-speaking manicurist will also teach you how to do it by yourself! Tour Highlights VIP treatment for a hand-care spa and pretty manicure. Professional manicurist with simple English-speaking skills do great panda style nails for you. Relax in a clean and comfortable nail salon where is near Kuanzhai Alley in Chengdu Provide on-site service at your hotel within 2nd ring road area of Chengdu. • VIP treatment for a hand-care spa and pretty manicure. • Professional manicurist with simple English-speaking skills do great panda style nails for you. • Relax in a clean and comfortable nail salon where is near Kuanzhai Alley in Chengdu • Provide on-site service at your hotel within 2nd ring road area of Chengdu. Detailed Itinerary Close All Before Your Day Activity You'll receive a confirmation email with the address of the nail salon, full details and directions to the salon and host's phone number after your booking. If you have any questions, you can contact with the host. Please leave your detail contact information( phone number/ Wechat ID) and what time you will be there at the time of booking, and arrive the salon at your appointed time on that day. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the host. 11:00 - 11:30AMHand Care After arriving at the nail salon, you will be served a cup of green tea. Firstly, the manicurist will do a basic hand care and trim and file your nails to make them neat. Hand care Then choose the nail art type which you like during the hand-care process. There are many panda styles as below for you to choose. If you want other styles instead of pandas, you can ask the manicurist, but some complex styles may have additional charges. Choose the colour Basic styles Complex styles Good to Know: Do not trim your nails too short before, It's better to have more space to work with. We will also provide on-site service at your hotel where is within 2nd ring road area. The extra fee is at US$10 per person. Not recommended for pregnant women. 11:30 –12:00Nail Painting Completing hand caring, the manicurist begins to paint pandas at your nails. During the nail art, just relax or have a pleasant chat with the manicurists. Apply the basecoat and let it to dry completely. Use some nail tools for paiting, like thin-tipped brush, toothpick, striper brush or other implement. When the panda designs are dry, finish with a clear topcoat. Enjoy your manicure Professional manicurist Take a photo with beautiful panda nails 12:00 – 12:30Explain Simple Nail Art After your panda manicure is ready, the manicurist will teach you simple nail paintings, and tell you some knowledge of nail art and nail care at the end. Take wonderful photos with your pretty panda nails and blow up your social networking sites. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Have a great avtivity with us! Close All Before Your Day Activity You'll receive a confirmation email with the address of the nail salon, full details and directions to the salon and host's phone number after your booking. If you have any questions, you can contact with the host. Please leave your detail contact information( phone number/ Wechat ID) and what time you will be there at the time of booking, and arrive the salon at your appointed time on that day. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the host. 11:00 - 11:30AMHand Care After arriving at the nail salon, you will be served a cup of green tea. Firstly, the manicurist will do a basic hand care and trim and file your nails to make them neat. Hand care Then choose the nail art type which you like during the hand-care process. There are many panda styles as below for you to choose. If you want other styles instead of pandas, you can ask the manicurist, but some complex styles may have additional charges. Choose the colour Basic styles Complex styles Good to Know: Do not trim your nails too short before, It's better to have more space to work with. We will also provide on-site service at your hotel where is within 2nd ring road area. The extra fee is at US$10 per person. Not recommended for pregnant women. 11:30 –12:00Nail Painting Completing hand caring, the manicurist begins to paint pandas at your nails. During the nail art, just relax or have a pleasant chat with the manicurists. Apply the basecoat and let it to dry completely. Use some nail tools for paiting, like thin-tipped brush, toothpick, striper brush or other implement. When the panda designs are dry, finish with a clear topcoat. Enjoy your manicure Professional manicurist Take a photo with beautiful panda nails 12:00 – 12:30Explain Simple Nail Art After your panda manicure is ready, the manicurist will teach you simple nail paintings, and tell you some knowledge of nail art and nail care at the end. Take wonderful photos with your pretty panda nails and blow up your social networking sites. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Have a great avtivity with us! Before Your Day Activity You'll receive a confirmation email with the address of the nail salon, full details and directions to the salon and host's phone number after your booking. If you have any questions, you can contact with the host. Please leave your detail contact information( phone number/ Wechat ID) and what time you will be there at the time of booking, and arrive the salon at your appointed time on that day. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the host. Before Your Day Activity You'll receive a confirmation email with the address of the nail salon, full details and directions to the salon and host's phone number after your booking. If you have any questions, you can contact with the host. Please leave your detail contact information( phone number/ Wechat ID) and what time you will be there at the time of booking, and arrive the salon at your appointed time on that day. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the host. You'll receive a confirmation email with the address of the nail salon, full details and directions to the salon and host's phone number after your booking. If you have any questions, you can contact with the host. Please leave your detail contact information( phone number/ Wechat ID) and what time you will be there at the time of booking, and arrive the salon at your appointed time on that day. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. Wechat is widely used in China, we suggest you to use wechat for further communication with the host. 11:00 - 11:30AMHand Care After arriving at the nail salon, you will be served a cup of green tea. Firstly, the manicurist will do a basic hand care and trim and file your nails to make them neat. Hand care Then choose the nail art type which you like during the hand-care process. There are many panda styles as below for you to choose. If you want other styles instead of pandas, you can ask the manicurist, but some complex styles may have additional charges. Choose the colour Basic styles Complex styles Good to Know: Do not trim your nails too short before, It's better to have more space to work with. We will also provide on-site service at your hotel where is within 2nd ring road area. The extra fee is at US$10 per person. Not recommended for pregnant women. 11:00 - 11:30AMHand Care After arriving at the nail salon, you will be served a cup of green tea. Firstly, the manicurist will do a basic hand care and trim and file your nails to make them neat. Hand care Then choose the nail art type which you like during the hand-care process. There are many panda styles as below for you to choose. If you want other styles instead of pandas, you can ask the manicurist, but some complex styles may have additional charges. Choose the colour Basic styles Complex styles Good to Know: Do not trim your nails too short before, It's better to have more space to work with. We will also provide on-site service at your hotel where is within 2nd ring road area. The extra fee is at US$10 per person. Not recommended for pregnant women. After arriving at the nail salon, you will be served a cup of green tea. Firstly, the manicurist will do a basic hand care and trim and file your nails to make them neat. Then choose the nail art type which you like during the hand-care process. There are many panda styles as below for you to choose. If you want other styles instead of pandas, you can ask the manicurist, but some complex styles may have additional charges. • Do not trim your nails too short before, It's better to have more space to work with. • We will also provide on-site service at your hotel where is within 2nd ring road area. The extra fee is at US$10 per person. • Not recommended for pregnant women. 11:30 –12:00Nail Painting Completing hand caring, the manicurist begins to paint pandas at your nails. During the nail art, just relax or have a pleasant chat with the manicurists. Apply the basecoat and let it to dry completely. Use some nail tools for paiting, like thin-tipped brush, toothpick, striper brush or other implement. When the panda designs are dry, finish with a clear topcoat. Enjoy your manicure Professional manicurist Take a photo with beautiful panda nails 11:30 –12:00Nail Painting Completing hand caring, the manicurist begins to paint pandas at your nails. During the nail art, just relax or have a pleasant chat with the manicurists. Apply the basecoat and let it to dry completely. Use some nail tools for paiting, like thin-tipped brush, toothpick, striper brush or other implement. When the panda designs are dry, finish with a clear topcoat. Enjoy your manicure Professional manicurist Take a photo with beautiful panda nails Completing hand caring, the manicurist begins to paint pandas at your nails. During the nail art, just relax or have a pleasant chat with the manicurists. • Apply the basecoat and let it to dry completely. • Use some nail tools for paiting, like thin-tipped brush, toothpick, striper brush or other implement. • When the panda designs are dry, finish with a clear topcoat. Professional manicurist Take a photo with beautiful panda nails 12:00 – 12:30Explain Simple Nail Art After your panda manicure is ready, the manicurist will teach you simple nail paintings, and tell you some knowledge of nail art and nail care at the end. Take wonderful photos with your pretty panda nails and blow up your social networking sites. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Have a great avtivity with us! 12:00 – 12:30Explain Simple Nail Art After your panda manicure is ready, the manicurist will teach you simple nail paintings, and tell you some knowledge of nail art and nail care at the end. Take wonderful photos with your pretty panda nails and blow up your social networking sites. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Have a great avtivity with us! After your panda manicure is ready, the manicurist will teach you simple nail paintings, and tell you some knowledge of nail art and nail care at the end. Take wonderful photos with your pretty panda nails and blow up your social networking sites. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Have a great avtivity with us! Price Include: One set of nail package. Professional manicurist. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Extra fee for complex nail styles or on-site service at your hotel. Gratuities. Price Include: One set of nail package. Professional manicurist. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Extra fee for complex nail styles or on-site service at your hotel. Gratuities. Price Include: One set of nail package. Professional manicurist. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Extra fee for complex nail styles or on-site service at your hotel. Gratuities. • One set of nail package. • Professional manicurist. • Complimentary tea. • Hotel pick-up and drop-off. • Extra fee for complex nail styles or on-site service at your hotel. • Gratuities. FAQs About This Tour What is the area of the hotels that we can provide on-site service? The hotel should be within the 2nd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to ask your travel advisor for another extra fee. Hotel Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. What is the area of the hotels that we can provide on-site service? The hotel should be within the 2nd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to ask your travel advisor for another extra fee. Hotel Area Map of Chengdu City What is the area of the hotels that we can provide on-site service? The hotel should be within the 2nd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to ask your travel advisor for another extra fee. Hotel Area Map of Chengdu City The hotel should be within the 2nd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to ask your travel advisor for another extra fee. Hotel Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 39 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 39 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 39 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20