ID: 7314287f3633487c
Title: Yunnan's Gaoligong Mountain: a Hiking Trip in Pristine Nature
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tengchong/attraction/gaoligong-mountain.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Gaoligong Mountain is part of the majestic Hengduan mountain range in western Yunnan, stretching over the Tengchong and Baoshan regions. It is a secluded UNESCO World Heritage Site, best for hiking, bird-watching, hot springs, and forest sightseeing. Whether you want a comfortable family experience, an adventurous journey into pristine nature, or a chance to explore biodiversity, Gaoligong is calling your name. Join me in discovering the wonders of this stunning mountain. • How to Choose Hiking Routes • What is the Best Time to Visit • How to Get to Gaoligong Mountain • Where to Stay Around the Area Gaoligong Mountain Hiking Routes: How to Choose Hiking is the best way to visit Gaoligong Mountain. There are a lot of mature hiking routes that may dazzle your eyes. But how to choose? I've picked out a few popular and classic routes for you. Route Highlights Km/Time Difficulty Start from Baihualing 👍 forest hot springs waterfalls 5 km 3 hours Entry-level Baoshan Five Creeks 👍 streams waterfalls cliff bees wilderness kitchen 5 km 2–3 hours Tengchong Qingyanzi waterfall bamboo raft local ethnic villages rock climbing stream trekking 7 km 3–4 hours Moderate Tengchong Dahaoping red alpine azalea paths 9 km 4 hours Tengchong Cuanlong Jurassic rainforest furry trees mushrooms 9–23 km 5–10 hours Challenging Tengchong Nanzhaigongfang sea of clouds snow Tea Horse Road 23 km 10 hours Baoshan Rich vegetation like a fantasy forest, Gaoligong Mountain Entry-Level: First-Time Hikers, Kids, or Elderly People For first-timers to Gaoligong Mountain, the 3–5 km (2–3 miles) routes, taking about 3–4 hours, could not be more suitable. With well-paved and marked shady paths, they are safe and easy for all ages to walk. These trails go through thick forests with streams, waterfalls, and even wild hot springs. You would spot lots of plants and little animals. No matter whether it's a parent-kid outing or a school trip, it could be a great and comfortable learning experience. Baihualing Hiking Route: Wild Hot Springs and a Waterfall For many first-timers, this route is fun enough to explore. You can experience a spectacular waterfall, wild forest hot spring, wild fruit picking, and possibly lovely animals like the black giant squirrels... During early spring, red alpine azaleas also bloom brilliantly. The route doesn't go back the same way. However, it's located in Baoshan, so if you're going from Tengchong, it takes about 2½ to 3 hours to get there. Five Creeks Hiking Route: Streams and Waterfalls This route offers more secluded and pristine forest scenery than Baihualing. The various waterfalls and tranquil streams are its highlights, such as a triple-tier waterfall, grand waterfall, and silk-like pearl waterfall. You could also see the spectacular cliffs covered with honeycombs, while also experiencing a wilderness kitchen with a BBQ and roasted tea with a tea pot. The path is mostly flat. But you still need to do some backtracking, and be careful about 200 mossy steps. It's just a 1-hour drive from Tengchong, passing attractions like Jiangju Ancient Town and Beihai Wetland. Therefore, it's a popular choice starting from Tengchong. Trek through the rainforests Hot Spring Experience on Gaoligong Mountain Hot springs in Baihualing are completely wild. That means there's no formal management or good facilities, just a simple wooden room for changing your clothes. The forest hot springs along other hiking routes are the same. If you're looking for a more comfortable soak, consider Lotus Hot Spring. It combines excellent forest views but offers better service and facilities. Alternatively, you could stay in a hot spring hotel or resort, such as that in Heshun Ancient Town or Mayugu Hot Spring Townlet. Hot Spring Experience on Gaoligong Mountain Hot springs in Baihualing are completely wild. That means there's no formal management or good facilities, just a simple wooden room for changing your clothes. The forest hot springs along other hiking routes are the same. If you're looking for a more comfortable soak, consider Lotus Hot Spring. It combines excellent forest views but offers better service and facilities. Alternatively, you could stay in a hot spring hotel or resort, such as that in Heshun Ancient Town or Mayugu Hot Spring Townlet. Enjoying a hot spring in the hotel after hiking can be relaxing Moderate: Active Adventurers, Nature and Culture Lovers These routes are 5–9 km (3–6 miles) and usually take about 3–5 hours. With longer distances and some steep sections, they are better for people who exercise often or have hiking experience. What's more, you must have a guide with you. The scenery would be more special to see, such as waterfall clusters or alpine azaleas. You could also explore local villages, ethnic cultures, or the history of the Southern Silk Road. Qingyanzi Hiking Route: Waterfall Bamboo Raft and Ethnic Villages It's an off-the-beaten-path route with the most beautiful waterfall clusters. At 7 km (4 miles), you could experience a waterfall bamboo raft, a wilderness kitchen, hot springs, and local Lisu villages. In addition, enjoy the challenge of some thrilling rock climbing and stream trekking. Dahaoping Ancient Trail: Alpine Azaleas and a Tea Horse Road Site This 9 km (6 miles) route features a large 10,000-acre azalea garden. It's best to visit from late February to March to see the blooming azaleas and trails covered in red petals. At other times, it's quite plain, with just a few historic Southern Silk Road sites, such as watchtowers and old post stations. Challenging: Experienced Adventurers If you want to experience a Gaoligong Mountain hike in-depth, try the trails from 9–23 km (6–14 miles), which may take over 10 hours. There are more unique sights you could see, such as furry trees, alpine meadows, a sea of clouds, and even snow. However, you need to climb higher elevations and go through more rugged trails, so it requires more energy to finish. A guide is important to help you traverse the challenging routes. Cuanlong Hiking Route: Deep Exploration of the Pristine Forest This route could lead you into a Jurassic rainforest. Many visitors choose it for the "furry trees" covered in moss and ferns, which are lovely and unique. What's more, enjoy alpine meadows, azaleas in spring. It's a fun route to explore. The trail is mostly wild with mud roads and a more pristine natural feel. You could choose to hike from 9 km to 23 km (6–14 miles) on this route. But if you go for the furry trees, go beyond 9 km (6 miles) as they could be seen everywhere! Nanzhaigongfang Route: Sea of Clouds and Snowy Sights It's the most classic long loop to traverse Gaoligong Mountain. You would trek across old stone parts of Tea Horse Road and wild mud paths, climbing more than 1,500 meters (4,921 feet) to reach an elevation of 3,175 meters (10,417 feet). You would also see tranquil forests, streams, furry trees, and possibly a sea of clouds and snow during winter. The route is quite long so you could spend 2 days exploring — 1 day for Baihualing and the other day to complete the remaining part: • Day 1: Baihualing short loop hiking, a hot spring, and stay overnight in Baihualing • Day 2: Start from Old Street in Baoshan and finish in Lin Family Shop in Tengchong. Essential Tips for Your Gaoligong Hiking Adventure There are many hiking entrances to Gaoligong Mountain. The popular one in Baoshan is Baihualing, while most other hiking entrances are in Tengchong. Gaoligong Mountain requires a mountain entry permit. You could get it at entry points, such as the Wangjiayan Forest Fire Checkpoint near Baihualing. Apart from Baihualing and Five Creeks, you would need a professional guide or forest ranger to accompany you on other trails as going alone could be risky. It's better to wear long sleeves and long pants and take hiking poles. Except in winter, you would probably encounter leeches, especially in summer. Also, be careful not to touch plants too much — they may hurt you with thorns! What Is the Best Time to Visit Gaoligong Mountain? Winter, spring, and autumn are all ideal for hiking with less rain but you could enjoy different scenery in each season. Winter is best for bird-watching, photography, and hot springs from December to February. You're more likely to find rare species of birds and no annoying leeches when hiking. It is warm in the daytime but cold at night, varying from 0°C to 25°C (32–77°F) in a day. Spring is the most beautiful season with flowers. From late February to March, you could see alpine azaleas. In April, it is the season for orchids. Autumn in September and October looks like summer. You still see green trees and lovely mushrooms but enjoy more clear days. In November, it is a great time for seeing golden ginkgo trees and lots of birds too. Summer from June to August is great for furry trees, and viewing waterfalls. However, it also rains more, leading to muddy trails and more leeches. If you travel in summer, it's better to choose easier routes like Baihualing for a light hike. How to Get to Gaoligong Mountain Gaoligong Mountain spans between Tengchong and Baoshan, but which one should you go to? It depends on which hiking route you choose. For example, if you choose the Baihualing route, fly for 1 hour from Kunming to Baoshan or take a direct 3½-hour bullet train. Dali and Lijiang also have trains to Baoshan. Then, you need to take a taxi or charter a car to Baihualing, taking about an hour, because buses don't go there directly. If you pick routes like Five Creeks, Qingyanzi, or Cuanlong, Tengchong is your place. It's closer to these routes. The easiest way is to take a 1-hour direct flight from Kunming since there's no train station in Tengchong. After arriving, take a 1-hour drive to Gaoligong Mountain by taxi or car. However, one problem is that the plane would be canceled easily during summer and the rainy peak season. If you want to go to Tengchong, taking a bullet train to Baoshan and then driving for 3 hours to Tengchong could be another possible way. Where to Stay Around Gaoligong Mountain For comfort seekers, stay in Tengchong city center or Heshun Ancient Town, a 1-hour drive to Gaoligong Mountain. There are more boutique/high-end hotels with good services, facilities, and hot springs. You could also find more surrounding restaurants and night activities to enjoy. If you want to hike along the Baihualing route and want to stay in a convenient area, choose to stay in Baihualing. It helps save time on the road as it takes a 2–3-hour drive if you start from Tengchong. However, there are mostly guesthouses, which are affordable but of average quality, and fewer restaurants. For camper lovers, Vinetree Gaoligong Tented Resort in Tengchong is an ideal glamping venue. Besides great facilities, you could also enjoy activities like bamboo weaving, fish catching, and so on. Alternatively, in March, it's also pleasant to camp beside the rape flower fields in Jietou Town. However, the campsite there is relatively simple and wild. For friends preferring healing relaxation, you could head to Mayugu Hot Spring Townlet. It is perfect to soak your feet or body in the hot spring after doing some tiring hiking. The Banyan Tree or Angsana Hotels also offer spas for you to relax. How to Plan a Tengchong Trip with Gaoligong Mountain Tengchong, at the foot of Gaoligong Mountain, is also worth exploring for 2–3 days. Here is a recommended itinerary for planning a Tengchong trip with Gaoligong Mountain. • Day 1: Tengchong arrival, Heshun Ancient Town • Day 2: Gaoligong Mountain hiking • Day 3: Hot spring scenic area, enjoy therapeutic hot spring bathing • Day 4: Volcanic National Geological Park, Beihai Wetland Reserve • Day 5: Ginkgo Village (best in November) • Day 6: Tengchong departure You could also join our 8-Day Yunnan Tour of the Nu River and Tengchong to explore charming northwest Yunnan, including Gaoligong Mountain, Tengchong, and the Nu River. Let's get your journey started!