ID: 59ab9021bee7d8e6
Title: Huangshan Transportation: How to Get to Huangshan and the Yellow Mountains
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/huangshan/transportation.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Huangshan City is famous for the stunning scenery of the Yellow Mountains and its cultural ancient villages. As one of the most popular tourist destinations in China, Huangshan has relatively convenient transportation. Read on to discover how to get to Huangshan, the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area, and the ancient villages. You can also get some useful ideas for your Huangshan trip. How to Get to Huangshan by Train There are two railway stations in Huangshan: • Huangshan North Railway Station (high-speed trains) • Huangshan Railway Station (normal trains) They have trains running to popular cities, such as Beijing, Shanghai, and Nanjing. If you haven't experienced China's high-speed railway before, it is a good idea to fly to a city, such as Beijing, Shanghai, or Nanjing, then take a bullet train to Huangshan. Huangshan North Railway Station Huangshan North Railway Station Huangshan North Railway Station (shown as '黄山北' on train tickets) mainly serves high-speed trains. If you are taking a high-speed train to/from Huangshan, you must use Huangshan North Railway Station. It is located about 21 kilometers (13 miles) or 30 minutes' drive north of the city center. Popular bullet trains: The two daily Beijing services take just 6½ hours. There are three Shanghai services (taking 3 hours), two of which depart from Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station at 08:42 and 09:15, and one which departs from Shanghai Railway Station at 08:05. Huangshan Railway Station Huangshan Railway Station Huangshan Railway Station (shown as '黄山' on train tickets) serves normal-speed trains daily. It's near the city center but quite a distance from the Yellow Mountains. • Click here to search for Huangshan trains. • Check out how to plan a Huangshan tour from Shanghai or book a Shanghai to Huangshan tour. How to Get to Huangshan by Air Huangshan Tunxi International Airport Huangshan Tunxi International Airport (TXN/黄山屯溪国际机场) • Location: Tunxi District, 5 kilometers (4 miles) to the west of Huangshan City • Airport inquiries: 0559-2934111/4144 Huangshan Tunxi International Airport is a medium-sized airport with domestic airlines connecting Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Guilin, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chongqing, and Taipei, among other cities, as well as one international airline connecting Seoul in Korea. We suggest you make your transfer in Beijing, Guangzhou, or Shenzhen as there are flights to Huangshan every day and there are more international flights to these cities. Transportation to the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area The Yellow Mountains is a mountain range that's also called Huangshan in Chinese so don't get it confused with the city (or prefecture). To arrive at the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area, you can take a flight or train to Huangshan City first, then transfer to a bus to get to the Yellow Mountains. The south gate is the most used entrance at the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area. There is a bus station at the gate called Xinguoxian Yellow Mountains Scenic Area Bus Station (新国线黄山风景区汽车站). If you take a bus to the scenic area, you will get off at this station. Be aware that airports and railway stations in China provide English services but the bus stations generally don't. If the language difference could be a barrier, you can contact us for a worry-free tour. No matter where you are in Huangshan, taking a taxi to the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area is a good way to avoid the hassle of taking a bus. Show this sentence to the driver: 请带我去黄山风景区。 (Please take me to the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area.) Huangshan North Railway Station to the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area Huangshan Tourism Passenger Transport Hub (黄山旅游客运枢纽) is located in the southwest section of Huangshan North Railway Station, from where you can take a shuttle bus to the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area. To get to the transport hub, find the 'Passenger Transport Hub 客运枢纽' sign in the railway station and follow the direction it indicates. Ask the staff members for help if you can't find it. The buses depart every 30 minutes, or when a bus is fully loaded, from 06:30 to 19:30. The journey costs 20 RMB (3 USD) and takes 50 minutes. If you arrive late at night, you may need to take a taxi or make arrangements with your hotel for a collection service. Huangshan Tunxi International Airport to the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area As there is no public transportation connecting Huangshan Tunxi International Airport and the Yellow Mountains, you can simply take a taxi there. The journey to the scenic area's south entrance (the most frequently used entrance) takes about 1 hour and costs about 200 RMB (30 USD). For a money-saving option, you can take bus 19 from the airport for nine stops to get to Huangshan Bus Station (汽车站), then take a shuttle bus to the scenic area. Huangshan City to the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area Buses operate from Huangshan Bus Station to the south gate of the Yellow Mountains Scenic Area every 5 minutes during the day. The journey takes about 1½ hours. If you are in Huangshan City, take bus 1, 2, 8, 9, or 19 to '汽车站' (bus station) or '汽车站站前广场' (bus station square). Transportation to Ancient Villages and Streets in Huangshan Besides the Yellow Mountains, the cultural ancient villages and streets are also worth a visit. Check out more incredible Huangshan experiences. Huangshan to Hongcun Village Hongcun Village has landed a place on the World Heritage List because of its long history, rural scenery, and well-preserved buildings dating back hundreds of years. Huangshan North Railway Station to Hongcun Village Huangshan Tourism Passenger Transport Hub provides buses to Hongcun Village. One bus departs every hour from 08:35 to 16:35 and the last service departs at 18:00. The journey takes 1½ hours and costs 30 RMB (4 USD). The Yellow Mountains to Hongcun Village Xinguoxian Huangshan Scenic Area Bus Station, located at the entrance to the Yellow Mountains, provides buses to Hongcun Village. A bus departs every hour from 07:00 to 16:30. The journey takes 1 hour and costs 20 RMB (3 USD). Show this sentence to the driver: 请带我去宏村。 (Please take me to Hongcun.) Huangshan to Xidi Ancient Village Xidi Village has about 100 ancient houses. This small village is an interesting side trip when visiting the Yellow Mountains. Huangshan North Railway Station to Xidi The bus from Huangshan Tourism Passenger Transport Hub to Hongcun Village goes through Xidi. If you get off at Xidi, your ticket will cost 23 RMB (3 USD). The Yellow Mountains to Xidi Xinguoxian Huangshan Scenic Area Bus Station, located at the entrance to the Yellow Mountains, provides buses to Xidi. Two services are provided every day at 09:30 and 15:30. The journey takes 1 hour and costs 18 RMB (2.50 USD). Show this sentence to the driver: 请带我去西递。 (Please take me to Xidi.) Huangshan to Tunxi Old Street Tunxi Old Street is located near the center of Huangshan. The ancient street has a series of old architectural structures, shops, and good restaurants. From Huangshan City, take bus 1, 2, 5, 8, 12, or 18 to '一马路' (Ancient Street 1) or '二马路' (Ancient Street 2). Show this sentence to the driver: 请带我去屯溪老街。 (Please take me to Tunxi Old Street.) Tunxi Old Street to Hongcun Village Take bus 1 or 8 to '汽车站' (bus station) and then take a shuttle bus. The buses depart from 08:00 to 16:00 on the hour. The journey takes 1½ hours and costs 20 RMB (3 USD). How to Get Around Huangshan The starting price for taxis in Huangshan City is 7 yuan. After 2.5 kilometers (1.5 miles), it's 2 yuan per kilometer. As public buses cannot go to scenic areas, taking a taxi to travel around saves your energy getting to bus stations and booking tickets. Most of the taxi drivers cannot speak English. You can use the Chinese sentences we have provided above or can ask staff members at your hotel to write down your destinations. Here are some more useful sentences to show the driver about where you are going: • 请带我去黄山机场。 (Please take me to Huangshan Tunxi International Airport.) • 请带我去黄山北站。 (Please take me to Huangshan North Railway Station.) • 请带我去黄山火车站。 (Please take me to Huangshan Railway Station.) • 请带我去黄山汽车站。 (Please take me to Huangshan Bus Station.) At present, 20 bus lines serve the city but none of them go to the Yellow Mountains and ancient villages. Travelers use the buses to travel between the airport, railway stations, and bus station. Tour Huangshan with Us We can provide you with a hassle-free Huangshan and Yellow Mountains experience. If you would prefer not to take public buses or long-distance buses, consider contacting us to arrange private transport. If you are planning on visiting Huangshan, you can contact us to tell us your requirements. We can provide free travel advice or help you arrange a trip. Check out some of our popular Huangshan tours for new ideas: • 3-Day Essence of Huangshan Tour • 3-Day Escape to Huangshan from Shanghai or Hangzhou Tour