ID: 60c7ec0692e8afa
Title: One-Day Zhangjiajie Tianmen Mountain Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/zhangjiajie/1-day-zhangjiajie-tianmen-mountain-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Zhangjiajie is known for its unique tourist sights, including strange-shaped pillars, hidden valleys, seas of cloud, and limestone caves. It is one of the must-see places in China. Tianmen Mountain and Heaven's Cave are also the most breathtaking sights that you can't miss. Enjoy the spectacular beauty of Tianmen Mountain on a full-day tour with an experienced guide. Take the world's longest cable car ride up the mountain and an open-air chairlift at the top. Test your nerves on a glass walkway perched at 4,691 feet (1,430 meters); shuttle to the summit along a road with 99 turns; and climb 999 steps to Tianmen Cave, aka Heaven's Door. Tour Highlights Ride the world's longest aerial tramway to the summit of Tianmen Mountain. Take a skywalk on narrow walkways of transparent glass that cling to the edge of the mountain. See a vast natural archway under the mountain, called Heaven's Door Cave. Escape from your busy routine to have a deep breath in the mountain full of trees. The Design of the Day Trip Mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! VIP treatment with No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 - 9:00Go to Tianmen Mountain Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. The gate of Tianmen Mountain Good to Know: How to contact the guide easily? Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:20 – 9:50Ride The Cableway Up to The Mountain The cableway in Tianmen Mountain (Included) is the world's longest at a length of 24,458 feet (7,455 meters) from City Garden downtown to the summit. It runs for 28 minutes, you will have a bird's eye view of the peaks and enjoy the breathtaking scenery of nature's masterpiece shrouded by mist during the journey. The cable car in the mountains Bird's view of 99-bend road 10:00 –12:00Visit Tianmen Mountain We will get off at the upper station of the cable way to start our visiting. Upon arrival on Tianmen Mountain, first we will experience the 60-meter-long glass walkway suspended at 1,430 meters high. Feeling pleased and shocked by the sensation of walking on the clouds and the drop into the void below your feet. Walking on the glass path on sunny day or in cloudy day, the feel is incredibly different. Glass skywalk Glass skywalk Then, go along the Ghost Path, admire the rare mountaintop scenery and know how beautiful the sky garden is from your knowledgable guide. You will feel like walking in a fairy land when the mist is still heavy. Be amazed by the peculiar peaks, odd rocks, lush plantations and blooming flowers. After that, ride an open-air chairlift (Included) to the top and reach the Tianmen Mountain Temple. Ghost Path Wonderful view along the path Yun Meng Xian Ding Sunrise upon the Tianmen Mountain Tianmen Mountain Temple is featured by the overhanging eaves, is the western Hunan regional Buddhism centre. It started building in the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) and rebuilt in 2002. The temple enshrines one of the five relics of Sakyamuni Buddha in China. From the square in front of the temple, you get a panoramic view of the mountain. Tianmen Mountain Temple Temple square to get a panoramic view 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Zhangjiajie specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Zhangjiajie's bacon Good to know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 13:00 – 15:00Explore Tianmen Cave After lunch, we will take the escalator (Included) down to the Tianmen Cave. The Passing Mountain Escalator, the world 's first elevator installed and runs in the mountain tunnel from the bottom of the Tianmen Cave to the top of the mountain, with a total of 12 sections. The length of the escalator is 897 meters, the lift height is 340 meters. The Passing Mountain Escalator Tianmen Cave, is the primary attraction of Tianmen Mountain Scenic Area. It is a grand karst cave 431 feet high, 187 feet wide and 197 feet deep spanning under the mountain. The cave is shrouded by the year-round dense mists. Looking from afar, the cave looks like a way up to the heaven. Before reaching Tianmen Cave, it takes about half an hour to climb the 999 steps that lead up to it, the stairs is also called " The way to Heaven". So the Tianmen Cave have another name "Heaven's Door Cave". 999 steps Heaven's Door Cave Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 15:00–15:30Take Shuttle Bus Down The Mountain Later on, we will take a shuttle bus (Included) down from the Tianmen Cave Square. 99 Bending Road is a most hazardous road. It was built in 1998 with 99 consecutive turnings, total length is about 10 kilometers which was the road wonder. It is the road which you can see in the cable car you took at the beginning of the tour. Our tour will end at the mountain foot. After the tour, you can take the public transportation or a taxi back to your hotel. Your guide will show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. 99 Bending Road Overlook the road Price Include: Admission to to Tianmen Mountain, including cable car, shuttle bus and one-way chairlift and escalator. Hotel pickup and drop-off in Zhangjiajie or Zhangjiajie Train Station. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Zhangjiajie is known for its unique tourist sights, including strange-shaped pillars, hidden valleys, seas of cloud, and limestone caves. It is one of the must-see places in China. Tianmen Mountain and Heaven's Cave are also the most breathtaking sights that you can't miss. Enjoy the spectacular beauty of Tianmen Mountain on a full-day tour with an experienced guide. Take the world's longest cable car ride up the mountain and an open-air chairlift at the top. Test your nerves on a glass walkway perched at 4,691 feet (1,430 meters); shuttle to the summit along a road with 99 turns; and climb 999 steps to Tianmen Cave, aka Heaven's Door. Zhangjiajie is known for its unique tourist sights, including strange-shaped pillars, hidden valleys, seas of cloud, and limestone caves. It is one of the must-see places in China. Tianmen Mountain and Heaven's Cave are also the most breathtaking sights that you can't miss. Enjoy the spectacular beauty of Tianmen Mountain on a full-day tour with an experienced guide. Take the world's longest cable car ride up the mountain and an open-air chairlift at the top. Test your nerves on a glass walkway perched at 4,691 feet (1,430 meters); shuttle to the summit along a road with 99 turns; and climb 999 steps to Tianmen Cave, aka Heaven's Door. Tour Highlights Ride the world's longest aerial tramway to the summit of Tianmen Mountain. Take a skywalk on narrow walkways of transparent glass that cling to the edge of the mountain. See a vast natural archway under the mountain, called Heaven's Door Cave. Escape from your busy routine to have a deep breath in the mountain full of trees. • Ride the world's longest aerial tramway to the summit of Tianmen Mountain. • Take a skywalk on narrow walkways of transparent glass that cling to the edge of the mountain. • See a vast natural archway under the mountain, called Heaven's Door Cave. • Escape from your busy routine to have a deep breath in the mountain full of trees. The Design of the Day Trip Mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! VIP treatment with No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. The Design of the Day Trip • Mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. • A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! • VIP treatment with No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 - 9:00Go to Tianmen Mountain Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. The gate of Tianmen Mountain Good to Know: How to contact the guide easily? Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:20 – 9:50Ride The Cableway Up to The Mountain The cableway in Tianmen Mountain (Included) is the world's longest at a length of 24,458 feet (7,455 meters) from City Garden downtown to the summit. It runs for 28 minutes, you will have a bird's eye view of the peaks and enjoy the breathtaking scenery of nature's masterpiece shrouded by mist during the journey. The cable car in the mountains Bird's view of 99-bend road 10:00 –12:00Visit Tianmen Mountain We will get off at the upper station of the cable way to start our visiting. Upon arrival on Tianmen Mountain, first we will experience the 60-meter-long glass walkway suspended at 1,430 meters high. Feeling pleased and shocked by the sensation of walking on the clouds and the drop into the void below your feet. Walking on the glass path on sunny day or in cloudy day, the feel is incredibly different. Glass skywalk Glass skywalk Then, go along the Ghost Path, admire the rare mountaintop scenery and know how beautiful the sky garden is from your knowledgable guide. You will feel like walking in a fairy land when the mist is still heavy. Be amazed by the peculiar peaks, odd rocks, lush plantations and blooming flowers. After that, ride an open-air chairlift (Included) to the top and reach the Tianmen Mountain Temple. Ghost Path Wonderful view along the path Yun Meng Xian Ding Sunrise upon the Tianmen Mountain Tianmen Mountain Temple is featured by the overhanging eaves, is the western Hunan regional Buddhism centre. It started building in the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) and rebuilt in 2002. The temple enshrines one of the five relics of Sakyamuni Buddha in China. From the square in front of the temple, you get a panoramic view of the mountain. Tianmen Mountain Temple Temple square to get a panoramic view 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Zhangjiajie specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Zhangjiajie's bacon Good to know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 13:00 – 15:00Explore Tianmen Cave After lunch, we will take the escalator (Included) down to the Tianmen Cave. The Passing Mountain Escalator, the world 's first elevator installed and runs in the mountain tunnel from the bottom of the Tianmen Cave to the top of the mountain, with a total of 12 sections. The length of the escalator is 897 meters, the lift height is 340 meters. The Passing Mountain Escalator Tianmen Cave, is the primary attraction of Tianmen Mountain Scenic Area. It is a grand karst cave 431 feet high, 187 feet wide and 197 feet deep spanning under the mountain. The cave is shrouded by the year-round dense mists. Looking from afar, the cave looks like a way up to the heaven. Before reaching Tianmen Cave, it takes about half an hour to climb the 999 steps that lead up to it, the stairs is also called " The way to Heaven". So the Tianmen Cave have another name "Heaven's Door Cave". 999 steps Heaven's Door Cave Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 15:00–15:30Take Shuttle Bus Down The Mountain Later on, we will take a shuttle bus (Included) down from the Tianmen Cave Square. 99 Bending Road is a most hazardous road. It was built in 1998 with 99 consecutive turnings, total length is about 10 kilometers which was the road wonder. It is the road which you can see in the cable car you took at the beginning of the tour. Our tour will end at the mountain foot. After the tour, you can take the public transportation or a taxi back to your hotel. Your guide will show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. 99 Bending Road Overlook the road Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 - 9:00Go to Tianmen Mountain Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. The gate of Tianmen Mountain Good to Know: How to contact the guide easily? Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:20 – 9:50Ride The Cableway Up to The Mountain The cableway in Tianmen Mountain (Included) is the world's longest at a length of 24,458 feet (7,455 meters) from City Garden downtown to the summit. It runs for 28 minutes, you will have a bird's eye view of the peaks and enjoy the breathtaking scenery of nature's masterpiece shrouded by mist during the journey. The cable car in the mountains Bird's view of 99-bend road 10:00 –12:00Visit Tianmen Mountain We will get off at the upper station of the cable way to start our visiting. Upon arrival on Tianmen Mountain, first we will experience the 60-meter-long glass walkway suspended at 1,430 meters high. Feeling pleased and shocked by the sensation of walking on the clouds and the drop into the void below your feet. Walking on the glass path on sunny day or in cloudy day, the feel is incredibly different. Glass skywalk Glass skywalk Then, go along the Ghost Path, admire the rare mountaintop scenery and know how beautiful the sky garden is from your knowledgable guide. You will feel like walking in a fairy land when the mist is still heavy. Be amazed by the peculiar peaks, odd rocks, lush plantations and blooming flowers. After that, ride an open-air chairlift (Included) to the top and reach the Tianmen Mountain Temple. Ghost Path Wonderful view along the path Yun Meng Xian Ding Sunrise upon the Tianmen Mountain Tianmen Mountain Temple is featured by the overhanging eaves, is the western Hunan regional Buddhism centre. It started building in the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) and rebuilt in 2002. The temple enshrines one of the five relics of Sakyamuni Buddha in China. From the square in front of the temple, you get a panoramic view of the mountain. Tianmen Mountain Temple Temple square to get a panoramic view 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Zhangjiajie specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Zhangjiajie's bacon Good to know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 13:00 – 15:00Explore Tianmen Cave After lunch, we will take the escalator (Included) down to the Tianmen Cave. The Passing Mountain Escalator, the world 's first elevator installed and runs in the mountain tunnel from the bottom of the Tianmen Cave to the top of the mountain, with a total of 12 sections. The length of the escalator is 897 meters, the lift height is 340 meters. The Passing Mountain Escalator Tianmen Cave, is the primary attraction of Tianmen Mountain Scenic Area. It is a grand karst cave 431 feet high, 187 feet wide and 197 feet deep spanning under the mountain. The cave is shrouded by the year-round dense mists. Looking from afar, the cave looks like a way up to the heaven. Before reaching Tianmen Cave, it takes about half an hour to climb the 999 steps that lead up to it, the stairs is also called " The way to Heaven". So the Tianmen Cave have another name "Heaven's Door Cave". 999 steps Heaven's Door Cave Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 15:00–15:30Take Shuttle Bus Down The Mountain Later on, we will take a shuttle bus (Included) down from the Tianmen Cave Square. 99 Bending Road is a most hazardous road. It was built in 1998 with 99 consecutive turnings, total length is about 10 kilometers which was the road wonder. It is the road which you can see in the cable car you took at the beginning of the tour. Our tour will end at the mountain foot. After the tour, you can take the public transportation or a taxi back to your hotel. Your guide will show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. 99 Bending Road Overlook the road The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 - 9:00Go to Tianmen Mountain Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. The gate of Tianmen Mountain Good to Know: How to contact the guide easily? Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:30 - 9:00Go to Tianmen Mountain Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. The gate of Tianmen Mountain Good to Know: How to contact the guide easily? Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. The gate of Tianmen Mountain • How to contact the guide easily? • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:20 – 9:50Ride The Cableway Up to The Mountain The cableway in Tianmen Mountain (Included) is the world's longest at a length of 24,458 feet (7,455 meters) from City Garden downtown to the summit. It runs for 28 minutes, you will have a bird's eye view of the peaks and enjoy the breathtaking scenery of nature's masterpiece shrouded by mist during the journey. The cable car in the mountains Bird's view of 99-bend road 9:20 – 9:50Ride The Cableway Up to The Mountain The cableway in Tianmen Mountain (Included) is the world's longest at a length of 24,458 feet (7,455 meters) from City Garden downtown to the summit. It runs for 28 minutes, you will have a bird's eye view of the peaks and enjoy the breathtaking scenery of nature's masterpiece shrouded by mist during the journey. The cable car in the mountains Bird's view of 99-bend road The cableway in Tianmen Mountain (Included) is the world's longest at a length of 24,458 feet (7,455 meters) from City Garden downtown to the summit. It runs for 28 minutes, you will have a bird's eye view of the peaks and enjoy the breathtaking scenery of nature's masterpiece shrouded by mist during the journey. The cable car in the mountains Bird's view of 99-bend road 10:00 –12:00Visit Tianmen Mountain We will get off at the upper station of the cable way to start our visiting. Upon arrival on Tianmen Mountain, first we will experience the 60-meter-long glass walkway suspended at 1,430 meters high. Feeling pleased and shocked by the sensation of walking on the clouds and the drop into the void below your feet. Walking on the glass path on sunny day or in cloudy day, the feel is incredibly different. Glass skywalk Glass skywalk Then, go along the Ghost Path, admire the rare mountaintop scenery and know how beautiful the sky garden is from your knowledgable guide. You will feel like walking in a fairy land when the mist is still heavy. Be amazed by the peculiar peaks, odd rocks, lush plantations and blooming flowers. After that, ride an open-air chairlift (Included) to the top and reach the Tianmen Mountain Temple. Ghost Path Wonderful view along the path Yun Meng Xian Ding Sunrise upon the Tianmen Mountain Tianmen Mountain Temple is featured by the overhanging eaves, is the western Hunan regional Buddhism centre. It started building in the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) and rebuilt in 2002. The temple enshrines one of the five relics of Sakyamuni Buddha in China. From the square in front of the temple, you get a panoramic view of the mountain. Tianmen Mountain Temple Temple square to get a panoramic view 10:00 –12:00Visit Tianmen Mountain We will get off at the upper station of the cable way to start our visiting. Upon arrival on Tianmen Mountain, first we will experience the 60-meter-long glass walkway suspended at 1,430 meters high. Feeling pleased and shocked by the sensation of walking on the clouds and the drop into the void below your feet. Walking on the glass path on sunny day or in cloudy day, the feel is incredibly different. Glass skywalk Glass skywalk Then, go along the Ghost Path, admire the rare mountaintop scenery and know how beautiful the sky garden is from your knowledgable guide. You will feel like walking in a fairy land when the mist is still heavy. Be amazed by the peculiar peaks, odd rocks, lush plantations and blooming flowers. After that, ride an open-air chairlift (Included) to the top and reach the Tianmen Mountain Temple. Ghost Path Wonderful view along the path Yun Meng Xian Ding Sunrise upon the Tianmen Mountain Tianmen Mountain Temple is featured by the overhanging eaves, is the western Hunan regional Buddhism centre. It started building in the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) and rebuilt in 2002. The temple enshrines one of the five relics of Sakyamuni Buddha in China. From the square in front of the temple, you get a panoramic view of the mountain. Tianmen Mountain Temple Temple square to get a panoramic view We will get off at the upper station of the cable way to start our visiting. Upon arrival on Tianmen Mountain, first we will experience the 60-meter-long glass walkway suspended at 1,430 meters high. Feeling pleased and shocked by the sensation of walking on the clouds and the drop into the void below your feet. Walking on the glass path on sunny day or in cloudy day, the feel is incredibly different. Then, go along the Ghost Path, admire the rare mountaintop scenery and know how beautiful the sky garden is from your knowledgable guide. You will feel like walking in a fairy land when the mist is still heavy. Be amazed by the peculiar peaks, odd rocks, lush plantations and blooming flowers. After that, ride an open-air chairlift (Included) to the top and reach the Tianmen Mountain Temple. Wonderful view along the path Sunrise upon the Tianmen Mountain Tianmen Mountain Temple is featured by the overhanging eaves, is the western Hunan regional Buddhism centre. It started building in the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) and rebuilt in 2002. The temple enshrines one of the five relics of Sakyamuni Buddha in China. From the square in front of the temple, you get a panoramic view of the mountain. Tianmen Mountain Temple Temple square to get a panoramic view 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Zhangjiajie specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Zhangjiajie's bacon Good to know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Zhangjiajie specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Zhangjiajie's bacon Good to know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Zhangjiajie specialties for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) Good to know: The dishes price is a little higher, and the taste is not better than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts if needed. 13:00 – 15:00Explore Tianmen Cave After lunch, we will take the escalator (Included) down to the Tianmen Cave. The Passing Mountain Escalator, the world 's first elevator installed and runs in the mountain tunnel from the bottom of the Tianmen Cave to the top of the mountain, with a total of 12 sections. The length of the escalator is 897 meters, the lift height is 340 meters. The Passing Mountain Escalator Tianmen Cave, is the primary attraction of Tianmen Mountain Scenic Area. It is a grand karst cave 431 feet high, 187 feet wide and 197 feet deep spanning under the mountain. The cave is shrouded by the year-round dense mists. Looking from afar, the cave looks like a way up to the heaven. Before reaching Tianmen Cave, it takes about half an hour to climb the 999 steps that lead up to it, the stairs is also called " The way to Heaven". So the Tianmen Cave have another name "Heaven's Door Cave". 999 steps Heaven's Door Cave Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 13:00 – 15:00Explore Tianmen Cave After lunch, we will take the escalator (Included) down to the Tianmen Cave. The Passing Mountain Escalator, the world 's first elevator installed and runs in the mountain tunnel from the bottom of the Tianmen Cave to the top of the mountain, with a total of 12 sections. The length of the escalator is 897 meters, the lift height is 340 meters. The Passing Mountain Escalator Tianmen Cave, is the primary attraction of Tianmen Mountain Scenic Area. It is a grand karst cave 431 feet high, 187 feet wide and 197 feet deep spanning under the mountain. The cave is shrouded by the year-round dense mists. Looking from afar, the cave looks like a way up to the heaven. Before reaching Tianmen Cave, it takes about half an hour to climb the 999 steps that lead up to it, the stairs is also called " The way to Heaven". So the Tianmen Cave have another name "Heaven's Door Cave". 999 steps Heaven's Door Cave Good to Know: There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. After lunch, we will take the escalator (Included) down to the Tianmen Cave. The Passing Mountain Escalator, the world 's first elevator installed and runs in the mountain tunnel from the bottom of the Tianmen Cave to the top of the mountain, with a total of 12 sections. The length of the escalator is 897 meters, the lift height is 340 meters. The Passing Mountain Escalator Tianmen Cave, is the primary attraction of Tianmen Mountain Scenic Area. It is a grand karst cave 431 feet high, 187 feet wide and 197 feet deep spanning under the mountain. The cave is shrouded by the year-round dense mists. Looking from afar, the cave looks like a way up to the heaven. Before reaching Tianmen Cave, it takes about half an hour to climb the 999 steps that lead up to it, the stairs is also called " The way to Heaven". So the Tianmen Cave have another name "Heaven's Door Cave". • There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. • Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. 15:00–15:30Take Shuttle Bus Down The Mountain Later on, we will take a shuttle bus (Included) down from the Tianmen Cave Square. 99 Bending Road is a most hazardous road. It was built in 1998 with 99 consecutive turnings, total length is about 10 kilometers which was the road wonder. It is the road which you can see in the cable car you took at the beginning of the tour. Our tour will end at the mountain foot. After the tour, you can take the public transportation or a taxi back to your hotel. Your guide will show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. 99 Bending Road Overlook the road 15:00–15:30Take Shuttle Bus Down The Mountain Later on, we will take a shuttle bus (Included) down from the Tianmen Cave Square. 99 Bending Road is a most hazardous road. It was built in 1998 with 99 consecutive turnings, total length is about 10 kilometers which was the road wonder. It is the road which you can see in the cable car you took at the beginning of the tour. Our tour will end at the mountain foot. After the tour, you can take the public transportation or a taxi back to your hotel. Your guide will show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. 99 Bending Road Overlook the road Later on, we will take a shuttle bus (Included) down from the Tianmen Cave Square. 99 Bending Road is a most hazardous road. It was built in 1998 with 99 consecutive turnings, total length is about 10 kilometers which was the road wonder. It is the road which you can see in the cable car you took at the beginning of the tour. Our tour will end at the mountain foot. After the tour, you can take the public transportation or a taxi back to your hotel. Your guide will show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Price Include: Admission to to Tianmen Mountain, including cable car, shuttle bus and one-way chairlift and escalator. Hotel pickup and drop-off in Zhangjiajie or Zhangjiajie Train Station. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to to Tianmen Mountain, including cable car, shuttle bus and one-way chairlift and escalator. Hotel pickup and drop-off in Zhangjiajie or Zhangjiajie Train Station. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to to Tianmen Mountain, including cable car, shuttle bus and one-way chairlift and escalator. Hotel pickup and drop-off in Zhangjiajie or Zhangjiajie Train Station. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Admission to to Tianmen Mountain, including cable car, shuttle bus and one-way chairlift and escalator. • Hotel pickup and drop-off in Zhangjiajie or Zhangjiajie Train Station. • English-speaking expert local guide. • Bottled water. • Lunch. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 156 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 156 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 156 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20