ID: 6003a8218261aa46
Title: 2-day Hong Kong & Macau Highlights by Turbojet
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/hongkong/2-day-hongkong-macau-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Take away the hassle of planning ahead and enjoy your trip by joining our well-organized two-day group tour. Explore the must-sees and must-dos of Hong Kong and Macau such as Hong Kong's Victoria Peak and Man Mo Temple, Macau's Ruins of St. Paul's and A-Ma Temple, etc. Taste delicious Michelin dim sum in Hong Kong and experience the unique and fun high-speed Turbojet to Macau. Immerse yourself in similarities and differences between these two cities in one memorable trip. Tour Highlights Skip the line at the Peak Tram up to see the skyline on Victoria Peak. Visit Hong Kong's landmarks - Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, Mid-Levels Escalators. Walk into local hidden alleys and taste 10 kinds of Michelin dim sum in Hong Kong. Take the Turbojet to Macau and visit Ruins of St Paul's Cathedral, Senado Square, A-Ma Temple. Experience the vibe of Macau's famous Las Vegas-style casino. Hassle-free tour with comfortable air-conditional vehicle and friendly tour guides. Detailed Itinerary Close All Day 1:A full day Hong Kong landmarks tour Today we will explore Hong Kong Island by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through Hollywood Street in the Central to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong-style dim sums in a Michelin restaurant. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Click the picture to check the itinerary of Day 1 Day 2:Visit Macau from Hong Kong by Turbojet On the second day we will take the Turbojet to Macau from Hong Kong. You'll explore most of well-known landmarks of Macau and have a chance to try your hand at a table in one of the Macau casinos. Let's see the detailed itinerary below. 8:00 amMeet your guide Your Hong Kong guide will pick you up from a designated hotel in downtown Tsim Sha Tsui, Causeway Bay, Kowloon or North Point around 8 AM. Or you can go to the meeting point by yourself at: Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal, 168-200 Connaught Rd Central, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong Important Note: The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 10:00 amPick up in Macau and start your tour We will transfer to Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal around 9AM and your Hong Kong guide will give you Turbojet tickets and see you off there. We will board the ferry through the group fast track without waiting in long lines. You will depart for Macau by comfortable Turbojet in 1 hour. You Macau guide will pick you up at the ferry arrival gate. Turbojet ferry is a must-try for Mucau tour that is the most unique and time-saving way to travel between Hong Kong and Macau, with the journey taking only 60-70 minutes. Our first stop at the Ruins of St. Paul, the most representative scenic spots of Macau, refers to the front of St. Paul Cathedral completed in the year of 1580. Mixing the style of renaissance and that of oriental architectures, the exquisite and magnificent cathedral used to be the largest Catholic Church, known as Oriental Vatican, affiliated to St. Paul College. In 2005, the Ruins of St. Paul's were officially enlisted as part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Historic Centre of Macau. No tourist will leave Macau without visiting this spot. Go up to the Monte Forte which is built in the 16th century by the Jesuits and later used as a military base. The fortress was one of the principle military facilities of the city. A high up view of Macau seeing the old historic centre and as well as modern Macau and across the water seeing Zhuhai, China. After this, we head to the Leal Senado (Municipal Council). Located in central Macau Peninsular, Senado Square is a historic and iconic public square located in the heart of Macau's city center. Known for its distinctive wave-patterned mosaic pavement, this UNESCO World Heritage site is surrounded by pastel-colored neoclassical buildings, creating a charming and picturesque setting. Senado Square is a popular gathering place for locals and tourists alike, offering a mix of shops, cafes, and cultural events. You are free to do some shopping for local souvenirs at the sidewalk stalls. We will go to the next stop at A-Ma Cultural Village that was funded by Goddess A-Ma Foundation of Macau. Completed in the year of 2003, A-Ma Cultural Village is covering an area of 6,200 square metres. Its main architectures are statue of Goddess A-Ma, and Tianhou Palace. A-Ma Temple is one of the three oldest temples (The other two are Kun Iam Temple and Lin Fong Temple) and most famous temple in Macau. Built in 1488, the temple is dedicated to Metsu, the Goddess of seafarers and fishermen. The temple is one the heritage sites of Macau being inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2005. 1:00 pmLunch Time We will enjoy a simply set-menu lunch and after a short rest, start the afternoon tour. 2:00 pmContinue the tour We will transfer to the Macau Tower which is an important landmark of Macau. It is the eighth highest tower in Asia and the tenth tallest sightseeing tower in the world. The tower measures 338m in height from the ground level to the highest point and the highest observation level is the Outdoor Observation Deck on Level 61, with a height of 223 meters (about 732 feet). Walking around the Observation Deck, you can have a panoramic view of the Peal River Delta, Macau Peninsula and Taipa, Coloane islands. The final stop we will drive to one of Macau's famous casinos for a look around and try your hand at a table. Your guide will stay outside the casino and if you would like to know more about the casino industry or have any questions, feel free to ask. As you know, Macau is the “Monte Carlo of the Orient”. All casinos are not just table games, they are large buildings that integrate accommodation, shopping and leisure. Macau really earns its reputation with several world famous casinos, such as Venetian Macau where you can take a ride on an authentic Venetian gondola in the building and Parisian Macau with its own Eiffel Tower. Venetian Macau Parisian Macau The Lisboa Casino is located on the Avenida Doutor Mario Soares that is also one of the landmarks of Macau. The casino is famous for its variety of gambling games, unique design, exquisite decorations, and sound facilities. It attracts a great number of visitors from all over the world. Lisboa Macau 5:00 pmTour ends Our tour will end around 5pm, your Macau guide will take you to the Macau –Hong Kong Ferry Pier, and take comfortable Turbojet return to Hong Kong. You will arrive at Hong Kong Ferry pier around 6 pm. The Hong Kong guide and driver will meet and pick up you at the ferry terminal arrival, then transfer to the designated hotel by shuttle bus. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Hotel pickup and drop-off (selected hotels only) for Macau day tour. Round-trip Turbojet ferry tickets. Professional English-speaking tour guide. Air-conditioned vehicle. Admission tickets for all listed attractions. Simple set-menu lunch. Price Excludes: Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. Personal expenses. Macau visa (if required). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Take away the hassle of planning ahead and enjoy your trip by joining our well-organized two-day group tour. Explore the must-sees and must-dos of Hong Kong and Macau such as Hong Kong's Victoria Peak and Man Mo Temple, Macau's Ruins of St. Paul's and A-Ma Temple, etc. Taste delicious Michelin dim sum in Hong Kong and experience the unique and fun high-speed Turbojet to Macau. Immerse yourself in similarities and differences between these two cities in one memorable trip. Take away the hassle of planning ahead and enjoy your trip by joining our well-organized two-day group tour. Explore the must-sees and must-dos of Hong Kong and Macau such as Hong Kong's Victoria Peak and Man Mo Temple, Macau's Ruins of St. Paul's and A-Ma Temple, etc. Taste delicious Michelin dim sum in Hong Kong and experience the unique and fun high-speed Turbojet to Macau. Immerse yourself in similarities and differences between these two cities in one memorable trip. Tour Highlights Skip the line at the Peak Tram up to see the skyline on Victoria Peak. Visit Hong Kong's landmarks - Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, Mid-Levels Escalators. Walk into local hidden alleys and taste 10 kinds of Michelin dim sum in Hong Kong. Take the Turbojet to Macau and visit Ruins of St Paul's Cathedral, Senado Square, A-Ma Temple. Experience the vibe of Macau's famous Las Vegas-style casino. Hassle-free tour with comfortable air-conditional vehicle and friendly tour guides. • Skip the line at the Peak Tram up to see the skyline on Victoria Peak. • Visit Hong Kong's landmarks - Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, Mid-Levels Escalators. • Walk into local hidden alleys and taste 10 kinds of Michelin dim sum in Hong Kong. • Take the Turbojet to Macau and visit Ruins of St Paul's Cathedral, Senado Square, A-Ma Temple. • Experience the vibe of Macau's famous Las Vegas-style casino. • Hassle-free tour with comfortable air-conditional vehicle and friendly tour guides. Detailed Itinerary Close All Day 1:A full day Hong Kong landmarks tour Today we will explore Hong Kong Island by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through Hollywood Street in the Central to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong-style dim sums in a Michelin restaurant. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Click the picture to check the itinerary of Day 1 Day 2:Visit Macau from Hong Kong by Turbojet On the second day we will take the Turbojet to Macau from Hong Kong. You'll explore most of well-known landmarks of Macau and have a chance to try your hand at a table in one of the Macau casinos. Let's see the detailed itinerary below. 8:00 amMeet your guide Your Hong Kong guide will pick you up from a designated hotel in downtown Tsim Sha Tsui, Causeway Bay, Kowloon or North Point around 8 AM. Or you can go to the meeting point by yourself at: Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal, 168-200 Connaught Rd Central, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong Important Note: The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 10:00 amPick up in Macau and start your tour We will transfer to Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal around 9AM and your Hong Kong guide will give you Turbojet tickets and see you off there. We will board the ferry through the group fast track without waiting in long lines. You will depart for Macau by comfortable Turbojet in 1 hour. You Macau guide will pick you up at the ferry arrival gate. Turbojet ferry is a must-try for Mucau tour that is the most unique and time-saving way to travel between Hong Kong and Macau, with the journey taking only 60-70 minutes. Our first stop at the Ruins of St. Paul, the most representative scenic spots of Macau, refers to the front of St. Paul Cathedral completed in the year of 1580. Mixing the style of renaissance and that of oriental architectures, the exquisite and magnificent cathedral used to be the largest Catholic Church, known as Oriental Vatican, affiliated to St. Paul College. In 2005, the Ruins of St. Paul's were officially enlisted as part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Historic Centre of Macau. No tourist will leave Macau without visiting this spot. Go up to the Monte Forte which is built in the 16th century by the Jesuits and later used as a military base. The fortress was one of the principle military facilities of the city. A high up view of Macau seeing the old historic centre and as well as modern Macau and across the water seeing Zhuhai, China. After this, we head to the Leal Senado (Municipal Council). Located in central Macau Peninsular, Senado Square is a historic and iconic public square located in the heart of Macau's city center. Known for its distinctive wave-patterned mosaic pavement, this UNESCO World Heritage site is surrounded by pastel-colored neoclassical buildings, creating a charming and picturesque setting. Senado Square is a popular gathering place for locals and tourists alike, offering a mix of shops, cafes, and cultural events. You are free to do some shopping for local souvenirs at the sidewalk stalls. We will go to the next stop at A-Ma Cultural Village that was funded by Goddess A-Ma Foundation of Macau. Completed in the year of 2003, A-Ma Cultural Village is covering an area of 6,200 square metres. Its main architectures are statue of Goddess A-Ma, and Tianhou Palace. A-Ma Temple is one of the three oldest temples (The other two are Kun Iam Temple and Lin Fong Temple) and most famous temple in Macau. Built in 1488, the temple is dedicated to Metsu, the Goddess of seafarers and fishermen. The temple is one the heritage sites of Macau being inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2005. 1:00 pmLunch Time We will enjoy a simply set-menu lunch and after a short rest, start the afternoon tour. 2:00 pmContinue the tour We will transfer to the Macau Tower which is an important landmark of Macau. It is the eighth highest tower in Asia and the tenth tallest sightseeing tower in the world. The tower measures 338m in height from the ground level to the highest point and the highest observation level is the Outdoor Observation Deck on Level 61, with a height of 223 meters (about 732 feet). Walking around the Observation Deck, you can have a panoramic view of the Peal River Delta, Macau Peninsula and Taipa, Coloane islands. The final stop we will drive to one of Macau's famous casinos for a look around and try your hand at a table. Your guide will stay outside the casino and if you would like to know more about the casino industry or have any questions, feel free to ask. As you know, Macau is the “Monte Carlo of the Orient”. All casinos are not just table games, they are large buildings that integrate accommodation, shopping and leisure. Macau really earns its reputation with several world famous casinos, such as Venetian Macau where you can take a ride on an authentic Venetian gondola in the building and Parisian Macau with its own Eiffel Tower. Venetian Macau Parisian Macau The Lisboa Casino is located on the Avenida Doutor Mario Soares that is also one of the landmarks of Macau. The casino is famous for its variety of gambling games, unique design, exquisite decorations, and sound facilities. It attracts a great number of visitors from all over the world. Lisboa Macau 5:00 pmTour ends Our tour will end around 5pm, your Macau guide will take you to the Macau –Hong Kong Ferry Pier, and take comfortable Turbojet return to Hong Kong. You will arrive at Hong Kong Ferry pier around 6 pm. The Hong Kong guide and driver will meet and pick up you at the ferry terminal arrival, then transfer to the designated hotel by shuttle bus. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Close All Day 1:A full day Hong Kong landmarks tour Today we will explore Hong Kong Island by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through Hollywood Street in the Central to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong-style dim sums in a Michelin restaurant. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Click the picture to check the itinerary of Day 1 Day 2:Visit Macau from Hong Kong by Turbojet On the second day we will take the Turbojet to Macau from Hong Kong. You'll explore most of well-known landmarks of Macau and have a chance to try your hand at a table in one of the Macau casinos. Let's see the detailed itinerary below. 8:00 amMeet your guide Your Hong Kong guide will pick you up from a designated hotel in downtown Tsim Sha Tsui, Causeway Bay, Kowloon or North Point around 8 AM. Or you can go to the meeting point by yourself at: Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal, 168-200 Connaught Rd Central, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong Important Note: The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 10:00 amPick up in Macau and start your tour We will transfer to Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal around 9AM and your Hong Kong guide will give you Turbojet tickets and see you off there. We will board the ferry through the group fast track without waiting in long lines. You will depart for Macau by comfortable Turbojet in 1 hour. You Macau guide will pick you up at the ferry arrival gate. Turbojet ferry is a must-try for Mucau tour that is the most unique and time-saving way to travel between Hong Kong and Macau, with the journey taking only 60-70 minutes. Our first stop at the Ruins of St. Paul, the most representative scenic spots of Macau, refers to the front of St. Paul Cathedral completed in the year of 1580. Mixing the style of renaissance and that of oriental architectures, the exquisite and magnificent cathedral used to be the largest Catholic Church, known as Oriental Vatican, affiliated to St. Paul College. In 2005, the Ruins of St. Paul's were officially enlisted as part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Historic Centre of Macau. No tourist will leave Macau without visiting this spot. Go up to the Monte Forte which is built in the 16th century by the Jesuits and later used as a military base. The fortress was one of the principle military facilities of the city. A high up view of Macau seeing the old historic centre and as well as modern Macau and across the water seeing Zhuhai, China. After this, we head to the Leal Senado (Municipal Council). Located in central Macau Peninsular, Senado Square is a historic and iconic public square located in the heart of Macau's city center. Known for its distinctive wave-patterned mosaic pavement, this UNESCO World Heritage site is surrounded by pastel-colored neoclassical buildings, creating a charming and picturesque setting. Senado Square is a popular gathering place for locals and tourists alike, offering a mix of shops, cafes, and cultural events. You are free to do some shopping for local souvenirs at the sidewalk stalls. We will go to the next stop at A-Ma Cultural Village that was funded by Goddess A-Ma Foundation of Macau. Completed in the year of 2003, A-Ma Cultural Village is covering an area of 6,200 square metres. Its main architectures are statue of Goddess A-Ma, and Tianhou Palace. A-Ma Temple is one of the three oldest temples (The other two are Kun Iam Temple and Lin Fong Temple) and most famous temple in Macau. Built in 1488, the temple is dedicated to Metsu, the Goddess of seafarers and fishermen. The temple is one the heritage sites of Macau being inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2005. 1:00 pmLunch Time We will enjoy a simply set-menu lunch and after a short rest, start the afternoon tour. 2:00 pmContinue the tour We will transfer to the Macau Tower which is an important landmark of Macau. It is the eighth highest tower in Asia and the tenth tallest sightseeing tower in the world. The tower measures 338m in height from the ground level to the highest point and the highest observation level is the Outdoor Observation Deck on Level 61, with a height of 223 meters (about 732 feet). Walking around the Observation Deck, you can have a panoramic view of the Peal River Delta, Macau Peninsula and Taipa, Coloane islands. The final stop we will drive to one of Macau's famous casinos for a look around and try your hand at a table. Your guide will stay outside the casino and if you would like to know more about the casino industry or have any questions, feel free to ask. As you know, Macau is the “Monte Carlo of the Orient”. All casinos are not just table games, they are large buildings that integrate accommodation, shopping and leisure. Macau really earns its reputation with several world famous casinos, such as Venetian Macau where you can take a ride on an authentic Venetian gondola in the building and Parisian Macau with its own Eiffel Tower. Venetian Macau Parisian Macau The Lisboa Casino is located on the Avenida Doutor Mario Soares that is also one of the landmarks of Macau. The casino is famous for its variety of gambling games, unique design, exquisite decorations, and sound facilities. It attracts a great number of visitors from all over the world. Lisboa Macau 5:00 pmTour ends Our tour will end around 5pm, your Macau guide will take you to the Macau –Hong Kong Ferry Pier, and take comfortable Turbojet return to Hong Kong. You will arrive at Hong Kong Ferry pier around 6 pm. The Hong Kong guide and driver will meet and pick up you at the ferry terminal arrival, then transfer to the designated hotel by shuttle bus. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Day 1:A full day Hong Kong landmarks tour Today we will explore Hong Kong Island by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through Hollywood Street in the Central to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong-style dim sums in a Michelin restaurant. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Click the picture to check the itinerary of Day 1 Day 1:A full day Hong Kong landmarks tour Today we will explore Hong Kong Island by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through Hollywood Street in the Central to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong-style dim sums in a Michelin restaurant. >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Click the picture to check the itinerary of Day 1 Today we will explore Hong Kong Island by visiting well-known landmarks like Victoria Peak by the Peak Tram, Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, walking through Hollywood Street in the Central to experience local's life and tasting Hong Kong-style dim sums in a Michelin restaurant. Click the picture to check the itinerary of Day 1 Day 2:Visit Macau from Hong Kong by Turbojet On the second day we will take the Turbojet to Macau from Hong Kong. You'll explore most of well-known landmarks of Macau and have a chance to try your hand at a table in one of the Macau casinos. Let's see the detailed itinerary below. Day 2:Visit Macau from Hong Kong by Turbojet On the second day we will take the Turbojet to Macau from Hong Kong. You'll explore most of well-known landmarks of Macau and have a chance to try your hand at a table in one of the Macau casinos. Let's see the detailed itinerary below. On the second day we will take the Turbojet to Macau from Hong Kong. You'll explore most of well-known landmarks of Macau and have a chance to try your hand at a table in one of the Macau casinos. Let's see the detailed itinerary below. 8:00 amMeet your guide Your Hong Kong guide will pick you up from a designated hotel in downtown Tsim Sha Tsui, Causeway Bay, Kowloon or North Point around 8 AM. Or you can go to the meeting point by yourself at: Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal, 168-200 Connaught Rd Central, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong Important Note: The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 amMeet your guide Your Hong Kong guide will pick you up from a designated hotel in downtown Tsim Sha Tsui, Causeway Bay, Kowloon or North Point around 8 AM. Or you can go to the meeting point by yourself at: Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal, 168-200 Connaught Rd Central, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong Important Note: The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. Your Hong Kong guide will pick you up from a designated hotel in downtown Tsim Sha Tsui, Causeway Bay, Kowloon or North Point around 8 AM. Or you can go to the meeting point by yourself at: • Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal, 168-200 Connaught Rd Central, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong • The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 10:00 amPick up in Macau and start your tour We will transfer to Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal around 9AM and your Hong Kong guide will give you Turbojet tickets and see you off there. We will board the ferry through the group fast track without waiting in long lines. You will depart for Macau by comfortable Turbojet in 1 hour. You Macau guide will pick you up at the ferry arrival gate. Turbojet ferry is a must-try for Mucau tour that is the most unique and time-saving way to travel between Hong Kong and Macau, with the journey taking only 60-70 minutes. Our first stop at the Ruins of St. Paul, the most representative scenic spots of Macau, refers to the front of St. Paul Cathedral completed in the year of 1580. Mixing the style of renaissance and that of oriental architectures, the exquisite and magnificent cathedral used to be the largest Catholic Church, known as Oriental Vatican, affiliated to St. Paul College. In 2005, the Ruins of St. Paul's were officially enlisted as part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Historic Centre of Macau. No tourist will leave Macau without visiting this spot. Go up to the Monte Forte which is built in the 16th century by the Jesuits and later used as a military base. The fortress was one of the principle military facilities of the city. A high up view of Macau seeing the old historic centre and as well as modern Macau and across the water seeing Zhuhai, China. After this, we head to the Leal Senado (Municipal Council). Located in central Macau Peninsular, Senado Square is a historic and iconic public square located in the heart of Macau's city center. Known for its distinctive wave-patterned mosaic pavement, this UNESCO World Heritage site is surrounded by pastel-colored neoclassical buildings, creating a charming and picturesque setting. Senado Square is a popular gathering place for locals and tourists alike, offering a mix of shops, cafes, and cultural events. You are free to do some shopping for local souvenirs at the sidewalk stalls. We will go to the next stop at A-Ma Cultural Village that was funded by Goddess A-Ma Foundation of Macau. Completed in the year of 2003, A-Ma Cultural Village is covering an area of 6,200 square metres. Its main architectures are statue of Goddess A-Ma, and Tianhou Palace. A-Ma Temple is one of the three oldest temples (The other two are Kun Iam Temple and Lin Fong Temple) and most famous temple in Macau. Built in 1488, the temple is dedicated to Metsu, the Goddess of seafarers and fishermen. The temple is one the heritage sites of Macau being inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2005. 10:00 amPick up in Macau and start your tour We will transfer to Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal around 9AM and your Hong Kong guide will give you Turbojet tickets and see you off there. We will board the ferry through the group fast track without waiting in long lines. You will depart for Macau by comfortable Turbojet in 1 hour. You Macau guide will pick you up at the ferry arrival gate. Turbojet ferry is a must-try for Mucau tour that is the most unique and time-saving way to travel between Hong Kong and Macau, with the journey taking only 60-70 minutes. Our first stop at the Ruins of St. Paul, the most representative scenic spots of Macau, refers to the front of St. Paul Cathedral completed in the year of 1580. Mixing the style of renaissance and that of oriental architectures, the exquisite and magnificent cathedral used to be the largest Catholic Church, known as Oriental Vatican, affiliated to St. Paul College. In 2005, the Ruins of St. Paul's were officially enlisted as part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Historic Centre of Macau. No tourist will leave Macau without visiting this spot. Go up to the Monte Forte which is built in the 16th century by the Jesuits and later used as a military base. The fortress was one of the principle military facilities of the city. A high up view of Macau seeing the old historic centre and as well as modern Macau and across the water seeing Zhuhai, China. After this, we head to the Leal Senado (Municipal Council). Located in central Macau Peninsular, Senado Square is a historic and iconic public square located in the heart of Macau's city center. Known for its distinctive wave-patterned mosaic pavement, this UNESCO World Heritage site is surrounded by pastel-colored neoclassical buildings, creating a charming and picturesque setting. Senado Square is a popular gathering place for locals and tourists alike, offering a mix of shops, cafes, and cultural events. You are free to do some shopping for local souvenirs at the sidewalk stalls. We will go to the next stop at A-Ma Cultural Village that was funded by Goddess A-Ma Foundation of Macau. Completed in the year of 2003, A-Ma Cultural Village is covering an area of 6,200 square metres. Its main architectures are statue of Goddess A-Ma, and Tianhou Palace. A-Ma Temple is one of the three oldest temples (The other two are Kun Iam Temple and Lin Fong Temple) and most famous temple in Macau. Built in 1488, the temple is dedicated to Metsu, the Goddess of seafarers and fishermen. The temple is one the heritage sites of Macau being inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2005. We will transfer to Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal around 9AM and your Hong Kong guide will give you Turbojet tickets and see you off there. We will board the ferry through the group fast track without waiting in long lines. You will depart for Macau by comfortable Turbojet in 1 hour. You Macau guide will pick you up at the ferry arrival gate. Turbojet ferry is a must-try for Mucau tour that is the most unique and time-saving way to travel between Hong Kong and Macau, with the journey taking only 60-70 minutes. Our first stop at the Ruins of St. Paul, the most representative scenic spots of Macau, refers to the front of St. Paul Cathedral completed in the year of 1580. Mixing the style of renaissance and that of oriental architectures, the exquisite and magnificent cathedral used to be the largest Catholic Church, known as Oriental Vatican, affiliated to St. Paul College. In 2005, the Ruins of St. Paul's were officially enlisted as part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Historic Centre of Macau. No tourist will leave Macau without visiting this spot. Go up to the Monte Forte which is built in the 16th century by the Jesuits and later used as a military base. The fortress was one of the principle military facilities of the city. A high up view of Macau seeing the old historic centre and as well as modern Macau and across the water seeing Zhuhai, China. After this, we head to the Leal Senado (Municipal Council). Located in central Macau Peninsular, Senado Square is a historic and iconic public square located in the heart of Macau's city center. Known for its distinctive wave-patterned mosaic pavement, this UNESCO World Heritage site is surrounded by pastel-colored neoclassical buildings, creating a charming and picturesque setting. Senado Square is a popular gathering place for locals and tourists alike, offering a mix of shops, cafes, and cultural events. You are free to do some shopping for local souvenirs at the sidewalk stalls. We will go to the next stop at A-Ma Cultural Village that was funded by Goddess A-Ma Foundation of Macau. Completed in the year of 2003, A-Ma Cultural Village is covering an area of 6,200 square metres. Its main architectures are statue of Goddess A-Ma, and Tianhou Palace. A-Ma Temple is one of the three oldest temples (The other two are Kun Iam Temple and Lin Fong Temple) and most famous temple in Macau. Built in 1488, the temple is dedicated to Metsu, the Goddess of seafarers and fishermen. The temple is one the heritage sites of Macau being inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2005. 1:00 pmLunch Time We will enjoy a simply set-menu lunch and after a short rest, start the afternoon tour. We will enjoy a simply set-menu lunch and after a short rest, start the afternoon tour. We will enjoy a simply set-menu lunch and after a short rest, start the afternoon tour. 2:00 pmContinue the tour We will transfer to the Macau Tower which is an important landmark of Macau. It is the eighth highest tower in Asia and the tenth tallest sightseeing tower in the world. The tower measures 338m in height from the ground level to the highest point and the highest observation level is the Outdoor Observation Deck on Level 61, with a height of 223 meters (about 732 feet). Walking around the Observation Deck, you can have a panoramic view of the Peal River Delta, Macau Peninsula and Taipa, Coloane islands. The final stop we will drive to one of Macau's famous casinos for a look around and try your hand at a table. Your guide will stay outside the casino and if you would like to know more about the casino industry or have any questions, feel free to ask. As you know, Macau is the “Monte Carlo of the Orient”. All casinos are not just table games, they are large buildings that integrate accommodation, shopping and leisure. Macau really earns its reputation with several world famous casinos, such as Venetian Macau where you can take a ride on an authentic Venetian gondola in the building and Parisian Macau with its own Eiffel Tower. Venetian Macau Parisian Macau The Lisboa Casino is located on the Avenida Doutor Mario Soares that is also one of the landmarks of Macau. The casino is famous for its variety of gambling games, unique design, exquisite decorations, and sound facilities. It attracts a great number of visitors from all over the world. Lisboa Macau 2:00 pmContinue the tour We will transfer to the Macau Tower which is an important landmark of Macau. It is the eighth highest tower in Asia and the tenth tallest sightseeing tower in the world. The tower measures 338m in height from the ground level to the highest point and the highest observation level is the Outdoor Observation Deck on Level 61, with a height of 223 meters (about 732 feet). Walking around the Observation Deck, you can have a panoramic view of the Peal River Delta, Macau Peninsula and Taipa, Coloane islands. The final stop we will drive to one of Macau's famous casinos for a look around and try your hand at a table. Your guide will stay outside the casino and if you would like to know more about the casino industry or have any questions, feel free to ask. As you know, Macau is the “Monte Carlo of the Orient”. All casinos are not just table games, they are large buildings that integrate accommodation, shopping and leisure. Macau really earns its reputation with several world famous casinos, such as Venetian Macau where you can take a ride on an authentic Venetian gondola in the building and Parisian Macau with its own Eiffel Tower. Venetian Macau Parisian Macau The Lisboa Casino is located on the Avenida Doutor Mario Soares that is also one of the landmarks of Macau. The casino is famous for its variety of gambling games, unique design, exquisite decorations, and sound facilities. It attracts a great number of visitors from all over the world. Lisboa Macau We will transfer to the Macau Tower which is an important landmark of Macau. It is the eighth highest tower in Asia and the tenth tallest sightseeing tower in the world. The tower measures 338m in height from the ground level to the highest point and the highest observation level is the Outdoor Observation Deck on Level 61, with a height of 223 meters (about 732 feet). Walking around the Observation Deck, you can have a panoramic view of the Peal River Delta, Macau Peninsula and Taipa, Coloane islands. The final stop we will drive to one of Macau's famous casinos for a look around and try your hand at a table. Your guide will stay outside the casino and if you would like to know more about the casino industry or have any questions, feel free to ask. As you know, Macau is the “Monte Carlo of the Orient”. All casinos are not just table games, they are large buildings that integrate accommodation, shopping and leisure. Macau really earns its reputation with several world famous casinos, such as Venetian Macau where you can take a ride on an authentic Venetian gondola in the building and Parisian Macau with its own Eiffel Tower. The Lisboa Casino is located on the Avenida Doutor Mario Soares that is also one of the landmarks of Macau. The casino is famous for its variety of gambling games, unique design, exquisite decorations, and sound facilities. It attracts a great number of visitors from all over the world. 5:00 pmTour ends Our tour will end around 5pm, your Macau guide will take you to the Macau –Hong Kong Ferry Pier, and take comfortable Turbojet return to Hong Kong. You will arrive at Hong Kong Ferry pier around 6 pm. The Hong Kong guide and driver will meet and pick up you at the ferry terminal arrival, then transfer to the designated hotel by shuttle bus. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Our tour will end around 5pm, your Macau guide will take you to the Macau –Hong Kong Ferry Pier, and take comfortable Turbojet return to Hong Kong. You will arrive at Hong Kong Ferry pier around 6 pm. The Hong Kong guide and driver will meet and pick up you at the ferry terminal arrival, then transfer to the designated hotel by shuttle bus. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Our tour will end around 5pm, your Macau guide will take you to the Macau –Hong Kong Ferry Pier, and take comfortable Turbojet return to Hong Kong. You will arrive at Hong Kong Ferry pier around 6 pm. The Hong Kong guide and driver will meet and pick up you at the ferry terminal arrival, then transfer to the designated hotel by shuttle bus. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Hotel pickup and drop-off (selected hotels only) for Macau day tour. Round-trip Turbojet ferry tickets. Professional English-speaking tour guide. Air-conditioned vehicle. Admission tickets for all listed attractions. Simple set-menu lunch. Price Excludes: Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. Personal expenses. Macau visa (if required). Price Includes: Hotel pickup and drop-off (selected hotels only) for Macau day tour. Round-trip Turbojet ferry tickets. Professional English-speaking tour guide. Air-conditioned vehicle. Admission tickets for all listed attractions. Simple set-menu lunch. Price Excludes: Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. Personal expenses. Macau visa (if required). Price Includes: Hotel pickup and drop-off (selected hotels only) for Macau day tour. Round-trip Turbojet ferry tickets. Professional English-speaking tour guide. Air-conditioned vehicle. Admission tickets for all listed attractions. Simple set-menu lunch. Price Excludes: Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. Personal expenses. Macau visa (if required). • Hotel pickup and drop-off (selected hotels only) for Macau day tour. • Round-trip Turbojet ferry tickets. • Professional English-speaking tour guide. • Air-conditioned vehicle. • Admission tickets for all listed attractions. • Simple set-menu lunch. • Private transfer for Hong Kong Island day tour. • Personal expenses. • Macau visa (if required). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 263 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 263 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 263 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20