ID: 67075665d7409367
Title: How to Visit Jiaozi Snow Mountain from Kunming, Yunnan
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/kunming/attraction/jiaozi-snow-mountain.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Jiaozi Snow Mountain is steep and its peaks are like sedans when seen from afar, hence its name "Sedan Chair Mountain". It has an atypical mountain glacier geomorphologic landscape in the central region of Yunnan province. If you're looking for a destination around Kunming for skiing or snowscape viewing, Jiaozi Snow Mountain could not be more suitable. • Location: Luquan County, 2½–3 hours' drive from Kunming • Elevation: 4,223 meters (13,855 feet) • Opening times: 8:30am–5pm (summit ascending is not allowed after 3pm) • Visiting time: 1–2 days • Highlights: skiing, snowscapes like ice cascades, azalea flowers • Best Times and What to See • How to Get to • How to Visit (Cable Car/Hiking) • How Long to Spend • Where to Stay Best Times to Visit Jiaozi Snow Mountain On Jiaozi Snow Mountain, winter is the best time to enjoy skiing and admire the snowscape while spring is also a pleasant time for hiking and viewing alpine azaleas. Visit Jiaozi Snow Mountain in Winter (Most Recommended) Ski Resort and Snow Activities Jiaozi Snow Mountain offers a ski resort, which Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and Meili Snow Mountains don't have. There is only an open-air ski resort located in the Sifangjing area (near the exit of the first cable car ride). It is typically open from the end of December or early February. The ski resort provides a primary slope, making it more friendly to new or elementary skiers. You could enjoy other fun snow activities in the snow playground in the Xiapingzi area (at the exit of the second cable car ride), such as sliding along the snow tubes, making a snowman, admiring ice statues, playing with snow diggers, etc. Snowscapes: Ice Waterfalls and Rime Forests From late November to February, you could witness Jiaozi Snow Mountain's unique winter landscapes, including ice waterfalls, rime-covered forests, a frozen lake, and icy streams. The rime-covered forests and snow could be seen all the way up the mountain, starting from Xiapingzi. As you hike toward the summit, you would encounter ice waterfalls, a frozen lake, and icy streams along Flower Brook Route and Moon Rock Route. Snow forests in Jiaozi Snow Mountain Tips for Visiting During Winter Crowds: Winter is the peak season with more crowds, while there are fewer visitors in other seasons. Temperature: It would be freezing during snowy days, with temperatures dropping between 0°C and -10°C (14–32°F). Wear: Wear a down jacket (suitable for skiing as well), thermal underwear, a scarf, and a hat. You could hire a ski suit or buy crampons, gloves, etc. on the mountainside. Take: Take a thermos cup and a portable oxygen can with you. Snow: Snow is typically seen above the mountainside, and the mountain is not always covered by snow. To catch the snowfall, you could check real-time scenes in RedNote or on TikTok. When it starts snowing, you could head out and enjoy it! Beautiful Ice cascade Some Winter Photogenic Spots for You to Take Photos Snowfields: There is a wide snowy ground with rime forests, which is best for atmospheric photos. You could find it after getting off the second ride of the cable car. Plank walkway: The walkway leading to the summit is perfect for taking photos in any pose. Viewing platform: It is better to shoot a back or full-body photo with the blue sky in the background. Ice cascades: Standing in front of the cascades is best for taking stunning photos. Small Celestial Lake (Jingguai Pond): The icy lake resembles a clear mirror and is particularly good for photography. Altitude sign: Capture a souvenir photo of reaching the top of Sedan Chair and get a panoramic view of the snow mountain. Capture the blue sky in Jiaozi Snow Mountain Apart from winter, the other seasons (spring, summer, and autumn) are considered off-peak at Jiaozi Snow Mountain, allowing you to enjoy a tranquil and uncrowded experience. Visit Jiaozi Snow Mountain in Spring (Recommended) Spring sees fewer visitors and warmer weather, making it best for hiking and viewing alpine azaleas. The temperature at the bottom is about 20°C (68°F). However, it may still be cold at the top, at about 10°C (50°F) or even lower. The blooming season of azaleas is from late March to July, while April to May is the most spectacular period, and azaleas bloom successively from lower elevations to high altitudes. Blooming pink azaleas Late March to mid-April: Bright red azaleas bloom around the Sifangjing area. Mid-April to early May: There are purple and pink azaleas in the azalea garden in Sifangjing and along the shuttle bus route (the Sifangjing area to the Xiapingzi area). You could get off to visit these areas while taking the shuttle bus. May: There are creamy yellow azaleas between the Xiapingzi area and the Daheiqing area. You could hike for 1 hour to admire the flowers along the way or take the cable car for a distant view. June to July: There are pink and white-orange azaleas above the Daheiqing area. Visiting in Summer from June to August Summer is cool on Jiaozi Snow Mountain and best for avoiding the summer heat. The mountain is lush green and swirled by clouds, making it more pleasant to admire waterfalls and summer azaleas. However, it is also the rainy peak season. It is better for you to visit on sunny days as the roads and steps are wet and slippery during rainy times. Visiting in Autumn from September to November Jiaozi Snow Mountain also enjoys wonderful autumn scenery as the moss and trees would turn colorful in yellow or orange. This season also experiences more clear days, making it suitable for photography. How to Get to Jiaozi Snow Mountain from Kunming Jiaozi Snow Mountain is close to Kunming and you could reach it by direct bus or car, typically taking 2–3 hours. For buses, you could depart from Kunming Railway Station or the long-distance bus station. The operating times are from 7:30am to 5pm. If you want a more comfortable and hassle-free tour, chartering a car or booking a private tour is recommended. With a well-experienced local guide and a driver, we could take great care of your needs, making your trip more enjoyable. How to Visit Jiaozi Snow Mountain Jiaozi Snow Mountain is accessible to ascend by cable car or hiking. The cable car could take you to the ski resort and help you avoid climbing more steps but it still requires some walking to reach the summit. The following is the visiting route for reference: Arrive at the gate area or parking lot → take the first cable car ride to the Sifangjing area 四方景 (ski resort) → transfer to the Xipingzi area 下坪子 by shuttle bus (snow playground) → take the second cable car ride to the Daheiqing area 大黑菁 → climb up along the plank walkway to the top (about 2–3 hours) There are three popular routes to the summit of Jiaozi Snow Mountain. We recommend taking the shortest and flattest path, Moon Rock Route, for the ascent, and descending via Flower Brook Route to enjoy the ice waterfalls along the way. The Thread Sky Route is steeper and longer, but it's a great challenge if you're up for it. Time tips for visiting by cable car: Avoid the peak ascending time (12 midday) and peak descending time (5pm). Both the cable car and shuttle bus would stop operating after 5:30pm, so you'd better begin descending at about 3pm to catch the cable car to go down. Time tips for visiting by cable car: Avoid the peak ascending time (12 midday) and peak descending time (5pm). Both the cable car and shuttle bus would stop operating after 5:30pm, so you'd better begin descending at about 3pm to catch the cable car to go down. If you're physically active, hiking on Jiaozi Snow Mountain could also be an unforgettable experience. Here is a recommended hiking route: Gate area → take the first cable car ride → transfer to the Xiapingzi area by shuttle bus → hike for about 3–6 hours to the top → return The Xiapingzi area is typically regarded as the starting point for hiking. From there, the trail is covered in snow all the way, so you would see snow everywhere as you walk! Would I Encounter Altitude Sickness While Visiting? With an elevation of up to 4,223 meters (13,855 feet), you may encounter altitude sickness, especially near the mountaintop. It's better to take a portable oxygen can. If you tour with elderly people over 65 or kids under 6 years old, it is better to care about their physical condition and then decide whether to go up to the top or not. Would I Encounter Altitude Sickness While Visiting? With an elevation of up to 4,223 meters (13,855 feet), you may encounter altitude sickness, especially near the mountaintop. It's better to take a portable oxygen can. If you tour with elderly people over 65 or kids under 6 years old, it is better to care about their physical condition and then decide whether to go up to the top or not. How Long to Spend on Jiaozi Snow Mountain Spending 1–2 days there is enough to visit Jiaozi Snow Mountain. A Day Trip (Regular Visit) A day trip to and from Kunming is typically a regular visit, using the cable car: Start from Kunming (8am) → Jiaozi Snow Mountain arrival (11am) → take the cable car rides and start hiking up (12pm) → reach the top of Sedan Chair (2–3pm) → descend and return (5pm) To avoid traffic congestion during the peak season, you could stay near the mountain the night before visiting. It allows you to skip the possible traffic and help catch an early cable car ride. 2-Day Trip Route (Ski Experience) A 2-day trip allows time for skiing, hiking, and enjoying the scenery while taking photos: • Day 1: arrival → take the first cable car ride → enjoy skiing in the ski resort → stay overnight on the mountainside • Day 2: take the second cable car ride → climb up to the top and enjoy the snow scenery on the way → departure Where to Stay Around Jiaozi Snow Mountain Stay Inside the Scenic Area: He Family Village Staying in the scenic area is more convenient when visiting and the hotels on Jiaozi Snow Mountain are basically concentrated in He Family village. It is close to the first cable car ride exit, making it easy to go up and down the mountain. There are also many rooms with great views of snow and rime forests. However, since it's on the mountainside, hotel facilities and dining options are relatively limited. Stay Outside the Scenic Area: Zhuanlong Town Zhuanlong Town is the closest town to Jiaozi Snow Mountain. If you want to stay outside the scenic area, it is the best option. It offers a better hotel infrastructure, more nearby amenities, and a wider variety of food options. The best hotel around Jiaozi Snow Mountain is located there. However, it's a bit farther from the scenic area, about a 20-minute drive.