ID: 7eb2a863a30064d2
Title: Shanghai - Suzhou High-Speed Train, Over 200 Pairs of High-Speed Trains
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/china-trains/shanghai-suzhou-train.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China Train Ticket Booking China Train Int’l Train from China Please Select China Train Ticket Booking China Train Int’l Train from China Please Select • China Train • Int’l Train from China Shanghai and Suzhou boast an extensive network of 244 pairs of high-speed trains catering to the needs of both tourists and commuters. With four high-speed train stations strategically placed in residential and industrial areas across each city, travel convenience is brought to the forefront. It's worth mentioning that Suzhou has become a popular residential choice for those employed in Shanghai, leading to a substantial number of people commuting between the two cities. Most high-speed trains take less than 30 minutes to run from Shanghai to Suzhou. • Distance: 105 km (65 miles) • Shortest duration: 21 minutes • Number of trains: 244 pairs of trains • Terminals: Shanghai South, Shanghai Station, Shanghai Hongqiao, Shanghai West, Suzhou Station, Suzhou North, Suzhou Xinqu, Suzhou Yuanqu Shanghai to Suzhou Train Schedule (Updated on March 6th, 2025) Train No. Departure Arrival Duration G7032 05:45 06:10 25m D3072 07:02 07:37 35m G7004 08:00 08:25 25m G1948 10:15 10:45 30m G7012 12:05 12:30 25m C3051 14:25 14:51 26m G7020 16:00 16:25 25m G7260 18:33 19:11 38m Suzhou to Shanghai Train Schedule (Updated on March 6th, 2025) Train No. Departure Arrival Duration D91 05:17 06:13 56m G7201 07:52 08:31 39m G7003 09:14 09:40 26m G7725 10:45 11:18 33m G7595 12:12 12:35 23m G7053 14:42 15:16 34m G7065 19:37 20:14 37m G3175 21:53 22:26 33m Please click Search for the Shanghai train schedules and book a ticket now. Top Things to Do in Suzhou Suzhou, renowned for its ancient Chinese gardens, offers a captivating experience for first-time visitors. These enchanting havens have garnered UNESCO World Heritage recognition, including the Lingering Garden, Humble Administrator's Garden, Mountain Villa with Embracing Beauty, and Canglang Pavilion. Another captivating aspect of Suzhou is its picturesque water towns. Among these, the Tongli Water Town stands out as the ideal destination for tourists with at least a day to spare. However, if time is limited, the charming Shantang Street or Pingjiang Road provide excellent alternatives to soak in the beauty of the city. Useful Tips for Shanghai - Suzhou High-Speed Train 1. There are two cities named Suzhou in China. One is 宿州 (Suzhou), in Anhui Province. The other is 苏州 (Suzhou), which is the capital of Jiangsu Province, near Shanghai and famous for its gardens and water towns. Please make sure that you choose the right city when you make a booking. 2. If you would like to visit Tongli Ancient Town from Suzhou, the most convenient way is to take a taxi. It takes around 50 minutes and costs USD20 for one way. 3. Suzhou Railway Station (苏州站) is centrally located in Suzhou City, whereas Suzhou North Station (苏州北站) and Suzhou Industrial Park Station (苏州园区站) are far away from downtown. It is recommended that you choose trains that depart from and arrive at Suzhou Railway Station for tourists. FAQs on Shanghai - Suzhou High-Speed Trains How long does it take to travel from Shanghai to Suzhou by high-speed train? The duration of a high-speed train journey from Shanghai to Suzhou may vary depending on the type of train you choose: Fastest Trains: The fastest high-speed trains can complete the Shanghai to Suzhou route in just 21 minutes. Most High-Speed Trains: Generally, most high-speed trains take approximately 30 minutes to reach Suzhou from Shanghai. Normal-Speed Trains: Even normal-speed trains are a viable option, taking less than an hour to traverse between these two neighboring cities. You may need to take a normal-speed train if the high-speed trains sell out during weekends or public holidays. What is the railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai? The railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai is approximately 84 kilometers (52 miles). This relatively short distance is one of the reasons why traveling by high-speed train is extremely convenient, as the journey can be completed in less than 30 minutes. Actually the Shanghai-Suzhou railway is a part of Shanghai-Jiaxing railway, which connects Shanghai the most developed cities in Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces. How long does it take to travel from Shanghai to Suzhou by high-speed train? The duration of a high-speed train journey from Shanghai to Suzhou may vary depending on the type of train you choose: Fastest Trains: The fastest high-speed trains can complete the Shanghai to Suzhou route in just 21 minutes. Most High-Speed Trains: Generally, most high-speed trains take approximately 30 minutes to reach Suzhou from Shanghai. Normal-Speed Trains: Even normal-speed trains are a viable option, taking less than an hour to traverse between these two neighboring cities. You may need to take a normal-speed train if the high-speed trains sell out during weekends or public holidays. How long does it take to travel from Shanghai to Suzhou by high-speed train? The duration of a high-speed train journey from Shanghai to Suzhou may vary depending on the type of train you choose: Fastest Trains: The fastest high-speed trains can complete the Shanghai to Suzhou route in just 21 minutes. Most High-Speed Trains: Generally, most high-speed trains take approximately 30 minutes to reach Suzhou from Shanghai. Normal-Speed Trains: Even normal-speed trains are a viable option, taking less than an hour to traverse between these two neighboring cities. You may need to take a normal-speed train if the high-speed trains sell out during weekends or public holidays. How long does it take to travel from Shanghai to Suzhou by high-speed train? How long does it take to travel from Shanghai to Suzhou by high-speed train? The duration of a high-speed train journey from Shanghai to Suzhou may vary depending on the type of train you choose: Fastest Trains: The fastest high-speed trains can complete the Shanghai to Suzhou route in just 21 minutes. Most High-Speed Trains: Generally, most high-speed trains take approximately 30 minutes to reach Suzhou from Shanghai. Normal-Speed Trains: Even normal-speed trains are a viable option, taking less than an hour to traverse between these two neighboring cities. You may need to take a normal-speed train if the high-speed trains sell out during weekends or public holidays. The duration of a high-speed train journey from Shanghai to Suzhou may vary depending on the type of train you choose: Fastest Trains: The fastest high-speed trains can complete the Shanghai to Suzhou route in just 21 minutes. Most High-Speed Trains: Generally, most high-speed trains take approximately 30 minutes to reach Suzhou from Shanghai. Normal-Speed Trains: Even normal-speed trains are a viable option, taking less than an hour to traverse between these two neighboring cities. You may need to take a normal-speed train if the high-speed trains sell out during weekends or public holidays. The duration of a high-speed train journey from Shanghai to Suzhou may vary depending on the type of train you choose: Fastest Trains: The fastest high-speed trains can complete the Shanghai to Suzhou route in just 21 minutes. Most High-Speed Trains: Generally, most high-speed trains take approximately 30 minutes to reach Suzhou from Shanghai. Normal-Speed Trains: Even normal-speed trains are a viable option, taking less than an hour to traverse between these two neighboring cities. You may need to take a normal-speed train if the high-speed trains sell out during weekends or public holidays. The duration of a high-speed train journey from Shanghai to Suzhou may vary depending on the type of train you choose: • Fastest Trains: The fastest high-speed trains can complete the Shanghai to Suzhou route in just 21 minutes. • Most High-Speed Trains: Generally, most high-speed trains take approximately 30 minutes to reach Suzhou from Shanghai. • Normal-Speed Trains: Even normal-speed trains are a viable option, taking less than an hour to traverse between these two neighboring cities. You may need to take a normal-speed train if the high-speed trains sell out during weekends or public holidays. What is the railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai? The railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai is approximately 84 kilometers (52 miles). This relatively short distance is one of the reasons why traveling by high-speed train is extremely convenient, as the journey can be completed in less than 30 minutes. Actually the Shanghai-Suzhou railway is a part of Shanghai-Jiaxing railway, which connects Shanghai the most developed cities in Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces. What is the railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai? The railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai is approximately 84 kilometers (52 miles). This relatively short distance is one of the reasons why traveling by high-speed train is extremely convenient, as the journey can be completed in less than 30 minutes. Actually the Shanghai-Suzhou railway is a part of Shanghai-Jiaxing railway, which connects Shanghai the most developed cities in Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces. What is the railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai? What is the railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai? The railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai is approximately 84 kilometers (52 miles). This relatively short distance is one of the reasons why traveling by high-speed train is extremely convenient, as the journey can be completed in less than 30 minutes. Actually the Shanghai-Suzhou railway is a part of Shanghai-Jiaxing railway, which connects Shanghai the most developed cities in Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces. The railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai is approximately 84 kilometers (52 miles). This relatively short distance is one of the reasons why traveling by high-speed train is extremely convenient, as the journey can be completed in less than 30 minutes. Actually the Shanghai-Suzhou railway is a part of Shanghai-Jiaxing railway, which connects Shanghai the most developed cities in Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces. The railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai is approximately 84 kilometers (52 miles). This relatively short distance is one of the reasons why traveling by high-speed train is extremely convenient, as the journey can be completed in less than 30 minutes. Actually the Shanghai-Suzhou railway is a part of Shanghai-Jiaxing railway, which connects Shanghai the most developed cities in Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces. The railway distance between Suzhou and Shanghai is approximately 84 kilometers (52 miles). This relatively short distance is one of the reasons why traveling by high-speed train is extremely convenient, as the journey can be completed in less than 30 minutes. Actually the Shanghai-Suzhou railway is a part of Shanghai-Jiaxing railway, which connects Shanghai the most developed cities in Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces.