ID: 4fccde757a7d81ff
Title: Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chengdu/attraction/panda-breeding-and-research-center.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-06-30T00:00:00
================================================================================

Is the Chengdu Panda Base worth visiting? Yes! For first-timers to Chengdu, panda base is a must-visit, and Chengdu Panda Base is your top option, as it's the closest, biggest, best-equipped, and most popular panda base in Chengdu, with the most pandas (200+) of all ages. You can enter from South Gate or West Gate. The South Gate is more popular and ideal for outdoor viewing of both giant pandas and red pandas. While from West Gate you can see more giant pandas with fewer crowds, and there are more indoor panda pavilions. • Name: Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding (Chengdu Panda Base for short) • Location: 30 minutes by car from Chengdu city center • Time Needed: 4-6 hours • Opening hours: 7:30 am—18:00pm (8am-17:30pm from Nov-Feb); Pandas are out by 7:30 am near the South Gate, but only from 9 am near the West Gate. • Best time: Visit in the morning, or at least before 2pm, to see active giant pandas. • Highlights: pandas, cubs, red pandas, panda-themed activities like the museum and theatre What to See in Chengdu Panda Base If You're Here for the Star Panda Huahua No. 6 Giant Panda Villa is home to Huahua. It's better to visit right at the 7:30 AM opening to catch Huahua before the large crowds, or around 10:30 AM during feeding time when she's more active. Just note that Huahua takes a rest on Mondays and won't be on display. The keeper is feeding Huahua. Fast-track route to Huahua (within 10 mins): Enter through South Gate → go straight → right turn after the golden panda statue → left at Swan Lake fork → follow signs to No. 5 Villa, then head to No. 6 Villa. Fast-track route to Huahua (within 10 mins): Enter through South Gate → go straight → right turn after the golden panda statue → left at Swan Lake fork → follow signs to No. 5 Villa, then head to No. 6 Villa. If You Want to See the Panda Cubs There are three nursery houses (Star, Sun, and Moon), and all might have cubs from several months to 1 year old. These spots are all directly accessible by the shuttle bus. • Star Giant Panda Nursery House (most recommended): fewer visitors, more convenient to get from West Gate • Sun/Moon Giant Panda Nursery House: these two are located near South Gate, often more popular and crowded with longer queues. Lovely panda cubs in the nursery house If You Prefer Watching Adult Giant Pandas You'll find two main areas to see the adult giant pandas: Panda Villa Area near South Gate (more popular) There are 7 panda villas. Aside from Huahua's villa, the others are generally quieter with fewer visitors and no need to queue. The villas are set in shady outdoor areas, so you can have a better viewing experience. However, the viewing distances are relatively far, and dense trees can sometimes make it hard to spot them. Panda Villa Area in Chengdu Panda Research Base New Area near West Gate (less crowded) If you want to see more pandas with fewer crowds, head to the new area. It's more spacious, and visitors are more spread out. This area includes three sections, Creek Valley Area, Forest Area and Reception Hall, with a total of 16 panda pavilions. If you're lucky, you may spot 30-40 pandas there. The panda pavilions there are more compact with fewer trees blocking your view, so you can enjoy a close-up of panda watching and photography. See pandas in the New Area near the West Gate Recommended Tour with Chengdu Research Base 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan and Mount. Emei Tour 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour Recommended Tour with Chengdu Research Base • 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan and Mount. Emei Tour • 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour Where Can I See the Red Pandas? There are two main red panda enclosures and one nursery area. The No.2 enclosure and the nursery house are especially recommended. There are long open-air boardwalks, which make it easier for you to watch the red pandas. They sometimes leap onto the walkways or fences, just right next to your feet or arms if you're lucky. What Are the Panda-Themed Activities to Enjoy in the Base? Chengdu Giant Panda Museum: Great for families with kids and student groups to learn about pandas and conservation. It's closed on Mondays. Panda Theatre: You can watch a panda musical drama, which is both artistic and educational, including Sichuan opera, martial arts, modern hip-hop, and panda conservation. Panda Panoramic Restaurant: With its floor-to-ceiling glass windows, you can sip coffee or enjoy a meal while watching pandas up close in a truly immersive setting. How to Visit Chengdu Panda Base It takes about 4-6 hrs to visit the whole base, typically entering from one gate and exiting the other. But if you're short on time or prefer not to walk too much, you can just visit one section and head back the same way. That takes around 2 hours. If you want to see Panda Huahua and red pandas, it's best to enter from the South Gate right at the 7:30am opening. This route also works well in summer, as if you start from the West Gate, by the time you reach the South Gate around noon or later, it may be too hot to see any pandas outdoors. If you just prefer seeing more pandas without the crowds, and don't want to get up early, then you'd better start from West Gate. Visiting Route from South Gate (reverse the order if entering from the West Gate) South Gate——No.6 Giant Panda Villa——Sun Giant Panda Nursery House——other panda villas——Red Panda Enclosures——Reception Hall——Pedestrian Street for rest and lunch——Star Giant Panda Nursery House——Forest Area——Creek Valley Area——West Gate Do I Need a Guide at Chengdu Panda Base? Afraid of getting lost in the crowd, missing the signs, or ending up wandering into closed spots and wasting time? You may need a guide to help to avoid these problems. The base is equipped with both Chinese and English guides, though they're usually booked up fast. You can also book a private tour. The guide will help plan your route, share fun panda stories, and handle pick-up and drop-off for you. If you are looking for a hassle-free tour to see pandas and other Chengdu highlights, feel free to contact us. China Highlights' guide and our guests at the panda base Quick Tips for Visiting Chengdu Panda Base • The park is wheelchair-friendly, with good accessibility and ramps throughout. • Taking a shuttle bus can save you a lot of walking. But if the queue is long, it's better to just walk for visiting instead. A full walking tour of the base can add up to over 20,000 steps, around 7 to 8 km (4.3-5 miles) in total. • No tickets are sold on-site. If you have Chinese number, book your entry up to 7 days in advance via the official WeChat mini program (search: Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding Research Base成都大熊猫繁育研究基地). If not, you can book with a travel agency. Feel free to contact us if you have any needs. • There are many souvenir shops near the visitor center, pedestrian street, Reception Hall, and the park entrances. If you end your visit at the South Gate, it's a good idea to shop there. There are more options, and you won't have to carry your souvenirs the whole way. Our guests are picking up some panda souvenirs When is the Best Time to Visit Chengdu Panda Base? Choose weekdays rather than weekends and holidays Chengdu Panda Base can get very crowded, especially on weekends and major public holidays like Labour Day (May 1st-5th) and National Day (October 1st-7th), and summer holidays (July and August). During these times, even if you arrive at the park at 7 am, it will still be crowded with people, and there will be long queues. If you visit on holidays, we recommend heading to the less-crowded Dujiangyan Panda Base. The earlier the best, 8am-10am is recommended For the best daily experience, visit around 8am-10am when they're most playful and feeding. From 2pm-3:30pm is the second feeding time, but pandas prefer sleeping in the afternoon. Arriving early helps you avoid some crowds. For example, go to the South Gate at 7:30am. If you prefer a later start, head to West Gate at 9am, as pandas there come out a bit later. Visiting early can help avoid crowds Autumn and early spring are the best for both pandas and visitors Pandas are more active outdoors in cool or cold weather, making Oct-Mar is ideal. But winter is quite cold in Chengdu, so autumn and early spring with pleasantly cool weather are best. Summer, hot and crowded, but it is the cub season June to August is panda cub season. You are more likely to catch a glimpse of newborns in the nursery, though it depends more on luck! Avoid summer afternoon heat. Once temperatures hit 26℃(79°F), especially in summer afternoons, pandas are moved indoors, so your viewing experience may be less enjoyable. Indoor rooms for pandas in Chengdu Panda Research Base How Do I Get to Chengdu Panda Base? The easiest way is by car or taxi. You'll be dropped off right at the entrance. From the city center Chunxi Road, the ride takes about 30 minutes. For a taxi, choose the green one due to the traffic restriction, and Didi is not available to get in. If you look for some budget-friendly ways, you can take a direct shuttle bus from Chunxi Road, under the IFS climbing panda. It goes to both the West Gate and South Gate of the base, taking about 35-40 minutes. Another option is taking the metro plus a bus transfer, but it takes about 1 hour in total. Which is Best, Chengdu Panda Base or Dujiangyan Panda Base? If you have time and want the most convenient option with the largest number of pandas, including adorable cubs, plus a beautiful park-like setting and a more immersive experience, then Chengdu Panda Base is your best bet. But if you'd prefer less walking, a quieter visit, and want to get closer to the pandas, or even join a panda volunteer program, then Dujiangyan Panda Base is a great choice. It's about 1.5 hours from the city. If you're curious about other panda bases like Panda Valley, Wolong, or Bifengxia, check out our guide on How to Choose a Panda Base to find the one that suits you best. Popular Chengdu Tours with Pandas • 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan and Mount. Emei Tour • 6-Day Chengdu City and Nature Explorer Tour • More panda tours