ID: 41937d29f1a8bf52
Title: Yunnan Weather in August 2026 (What to Wear and Top Places to Go)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yunnan/weather-in-august.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

August in Yunnan is best for escaping the summer heat and admiring vibrant verdant scenery. The weather is warm with cool breezes but it remains unpredictable and is accompanied by showers. Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La remain popular with travelers while it is also pleasant to catch beautiful scenery in off-the-beaten-path destinations, such as Tengchong and Lugu Lake. • Yunnan Weather in August • Top 5 Places to Visit • Crowds and Costs Yunnan Weather in August In August, the average daily temperature in Yunnan is comfortable, ranging from 18°C to 26°C (64–79°F). It still experiences the rainy season and most areas of Yunnan have rainy days (mostly showers) for at least half of the month. However, the sky tends to clear up and shine after the rain. The Average Daily Temperature in August Region City Average Daytime Temperature Average Nighttime Temperature Central Kunming 23°C (73°F) 16°C (61°F) Dali 24°C (75°F) 15°C (59°F) North Lijiang 24°C (75°F) 14°C (57°F) Shangri-La 19°C (66°F) 9°C (48°F) West Tengchong 26°C (79°F) 18°C (64°F) South Xishuangbanna 30°C (86°F) 22°C (72°F) Will the Rain Affect Travel? August experiences unpredictable rainfall so it would affect travel slightly but wouldn't completely ruin your itinerary. Sometimes it could be sunny for a few days in a row and sometimes there would be brief showers (depending on your luck). Therefore, if you plan to visit in August, you need to lower your expectations for the weather and be flexible. Even when it rains, in most cases, the situation is not too bad. The rain typically falls in the morning or at night. During the daytime, it would leave behind clear or sunny weather for several hours after the rain, making it suitable for sightseeing or outdoor activities. However, if you prefer dry weather or want perfect weather conditions, then August might be less suitable for a trip to Yunnan. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan Clothing Suggestions: In Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Tengchong, cool clothes like T-shirts are suitable during the day and a light coat or shawl at night. Cooler Shangri-La requires warmer layers, such as a light sweater or coat, while in hot Xishuangbanna, cool summer clothes are wearable throughout the day. Most areas in Yunnan experience strong UV rays and relatively dry air even in the rainy season. It is advisable to stay moisturized and protect yourself from the sun. Top Places to Visit in August The rainfall and comfortable temperature in August bring a thriving landscape to Yunnan, making it suitable to capture pleasant natural sights and experience leisurely activities. Pudacuo National Park In August, ample oxygen in the air helps alleviate altitude sickness or may reduce the likelihood of experiencing it, making it a favorable time to visit Shangri-La. August is the perfect time to experience the lush meadows and serene lakes of Shangri-La, with the landscape at its most vibrant. Pudacuo National Park and Napa Lake are two ideal spots to take in the beauty of the area. If you're short on time and prefer a more relaxed pace, Pudacuo National Park is the better choice. You can enjoy a peaceful boat ride and a leisurely walk through nature, taking in a variety of landscapes including meadows, forests, lakes, and mountains. For those who enjoy more active outdoor adventures, Napa Lake offers an exciting option. You can cycle across the vast grasslands for about 1½ hours, or experience the thrill of horseback riding. Experiencing Tibetan culture is a must when visiting Shangri-La. You could head to Songzanlin Monastery to hang blessing prayer flags and converse with the monks while also immersing yourself in the grandeur of Tibetan architecture. Take a family cycling along Erhai Although Dali experiences some rain in August, the weather remains pleasantly cool and ideal for retreating from the heat. In addition, the picturesque views of Er Lake also make it a popular summer travel spot in China. If you want to experience some outdoor activities, especially with kids, you could cycle along the lakeside. If you prefer a leisurely option, we recommend driving around or taking a cruise, enjoying the pleasant view while visiting the attractions around Erhai. For handicraft lovers, experience the tie-dyeing process in Zhoucheng Village or make flower cakes in the Rose Mansion. From mid-August, Erhai is perfect for admiring flickering fishing lights. If you want to explore Er Lake at night, the east shore of the lake is an ideal spot for viewing the dreamy lights. As a popular summer destination, Dali has more visitors in August, especially in the first half of the month. If you want to avoid the crowds, consider visiting the less-touristy Shaxi Ancient Town instead of the bustling Dali Old Town. In addition, Shaxi is perfect for admiring starry nights and the Milky Way. Lijiang in August enjoys abundant rainfall and sunlight, making it the best time to visit Blue Moon Valley and Spruce Meadow at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. You could see the lake becoming crystal clear, while the meadows thrive with lush greenery. However, the snow at Glacier Park on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain is less spectacular than it is in winter as little snow remains on the summit and more black rocks appear during summertime. Lijiang, also a popular destination during summertime, tends to get more crowded in August, especially in Lijiang Old Town. To avoid crowds, it is advisable to visit in the early morning or head to the quieter Shuhe Ancient Town, which has a more authentic atmosphere. If you're interested in local ethnic culture or you are traveling with kids or teenage school students and want them to learn about local culture, we recommend Yuhu Village. It is less touristy with diverse experiences, such as a museum, the chance to visit a Naxi family's home, cooking lessons, and farmwork experiences. It is also the best time to witness the spectacular Tiger Leaping Gorge as the abundant rainfall makes the river surge and be more powerful. Read more about our 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups, which includes Lijiang. Lugu Lake with glittering and translucent water flowers August is pleasant to admire the beautiful Lugu Lake and especially good for enjoying the sight of white flowers floating gracefully on the lake. You could take a wooden boat or drive around the lake for a leisurely viewing experience. It is also the best time for admiring a sea of grass. The boundless green wetland meadows create a soothing sight, making them delightful to admire by boat or walking along the plank walkway. If you're interested in ethnic culture, explore the unique matriarchal Mosuo minority around Lugu Lake, such as by visiting the museum and a local Mosuo family, or joining a bonfire party with vibrant shows. • 3-Day Lugu Lake Tour • 7-Day Yunnan Minorities Cultural Tour with Lugu Lake Tranquil Heshun Ancient Town If you're looking for an off-the-beaten-path destination, which is ideal for avoiding the summer crowds in August, Tengchong is one of the best options and it is also pleasantly cool. In Tengchong, you could explore the most characteristic volcano park. For a more special experience, you could ride in a hot-air balloon to enjoy a bird's-eye view of a cluster of volcanoes. If you prefer visiting ancient towns, head to Heshun Ancient Town, known for its natural charm and well-preserved architecture. You could savor delicious snacks as you soak up the idyllic sights. August is also the best time to enjoy water activities, such as experiencing a thrilling and adventurous kayak ride along the Longchuan River. See more on our 8-Day Yunnan Tour of the Nu River and Tengchong. August, the final month of the summer vacation, continues to attract large crowds of tourists in Yunnan. Therefore, ticket availability is still tight and both accommodation fees and airfares stay relatively high, similar to July. Popular destinations, including Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La, are bustling at this time, leading to a higher travel budget. If you are seeking a budget-friendly experience and fewer visitors, consider Xishuangbanna or Tengchong. Tips for Touring Popular Destinations in August • Late August sees fewer family travelers due to the end of the summer vacation. • Plan your trip 1–2 months in advance or extend it by 1–2 days to flexibly alter your itinerary. • Book a private tour for a hassle-free and better experience, such as VIP channels to skip part of the lines. • Consider visiting some alternative attractions instead of encountering large crowds in some popular spots, such as going to the less-visited Naigu Stone Forest instead of the popular Stone Forest. Our travel advisers and guides can offer more tour tips for you. Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions while planning your Yunnan trip. Recommended Yunnan Tours • 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour • 8-Day 'Meet Yourself' Yunnan Tour • 6-Day Lijiang and Shangri-La Tour