ID: 762856f57eb9c764
Title: One-Day Leshan Giant Buddha and Tea Terrace Tour from Chengdu
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chengdu/one-day-leshan-giant-buddha-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Have you heard: the Buddha is a mountain, and the mountain is a Buddha?! On this tour, you will gain a panoramic view of the Leshan Giant Buddha from a boat. Discover a 500-year-old town which still preserved traditional workshops and visit a 100-year-old courtyard house, enjoy tea and share stories with local people. Follow the tea farmer to learn about tea and have a try of picking tea experience. In 1996, the Leshan Giant Buddha was listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site, together with Mount Emei. There are many more hidden Buddhist cultural treasures awaiting your discovery in this land of Buddha. Tour Highlights Escape the long queues for a close-up look at the Leshan Giant Buddha. Waste no time! Off-road visit to countryside and an ancient town has a story of history of 500 years. Visit to traditional workshops in the ancient town. Comprehensive Tea Learning - drinking in old tea house, picking tea from plantation, visit tea workshop. Visit old courtyard house and listen to stories from the owner. The Design of the Day Trip Be part of a small group with a maximum of 10 people, absolutely no shopping detours. Free hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. A friendly and professional local English-speaking tour guide will ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Tour We will send you the tour guide information and pickup time by email and SMS Message. Before 8 pm that day, the tour guide will also contact you or leave a message for you at the hotel about the pickup time. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666. 7:00 AM - 8:00 AM Hotel Pickup The driver will wait for you at the hotel lobby (or another specified meeting place) at the appointed time, holding the logo of Trippest and your name sign. After all group members have been collected, you will be transferred to Leshan, approximately 2 hours' drive from Chengdu. Your group will have a maximum of 10 people. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: Hotel pickup and drop-off services will be available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your hotel is outside the 3rd ring road, we can arrange an additional transfer for you, or you can go to the appointed meeting place yourself. That transportation fee will be at your own expense. You will have a reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience, to ensure your safe travel. You will have a spacious and comfortable legal vehicle with A/C and unlimited bottled water. We can provide a baby seat if needed. Please specify any special requests at the time of booking. 8:00 AM - 10:30 AM Transfer to Leshan It is about 2-hour car driving from Chengdu to Leshan. The tour guide will meet and greet all of you at Leshan Port. 10:30 AM – 11:30 AMVisit Leshan Giant Buddha On arrival in Leshan, you will head to the Giant Buddha Park and be dropped off at the boat dock. You will take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha from a different perspective. The whole trip will last 15-20 minutes. The boat will take you right up to the Giant Buddha. Don't forget to take a selfie, smiling along with the Buddha. Standing 233 feet (71 meters) tall, the Leshan Giant Buddha is carved into a cliff face over-looking the confluence of the Dadu, Qingyi, and Min Rivers. The 1,200-year-old Giant Buddha holds the record as the largest Buddha sculpture in the world. His ears stretch for 7 meters, his shoulders span 28 meters, and each of his big toes is 8.5 meters long. Take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha Leshan Giant Buddha Who Built This Giant Buddha and Why? A Buddhist monk called Haitong conceived the project in AD 713, hoping that the Buddha would calm the swift river and protect fishermen from lethal currents.The huge project wasn't completed until 90 years after Haitong's death, but eventually, the story goes that just as he had once wished, the river waters calmed. Locals say it was the Grand Buddha's calming effect. Good to Know Other groups, wishing to appreciate fully the Buddha's magnitude, descend along the red sand cliff road to view the phenomenal Giant Buddha from the bottom, and climb up at the opposite side of the hill. There is always a long queue waiting to descend to the feet of the Leshan Giant Buddha. Traffic on the staircase can come to a complete standstill for about 2-3 hours at weekends or on public holidays, especially during summer vacations. To save your precious time, we do a river cruise for a panoramic view of the Buddha, rather than trying to get a close-up look. 11:30 AM – 2:00 PM A Walking Tour at A Laid-back Old Town and Taste Local Leshan Food. After visiting Buddha, there will be 40 mins drive to a laid-back old town. Take a walk around the town where traditional lifestyles still survived from the modernization. Along the way we visit traditional workshops such as blacksmith's shop, bamboo workshop, barber shop etc. Enjoy tea and chat and share stories with lovely local people in old tea house and later drop in one of the hundred-year-old courtyard house where it's owner are so proud of and love to share stories of the house. Chinese Traditional Farm Tools Rice Wine Retail Shop Old Barber Shop Taste Delicious Street Food Lunch 2:00 PM – 4:20 PM Tea Plantation Experience. A short drive takes us up to the mountain. The tea farmer will take us to the tea field, where we will learn a lot about tea from how to pick-up the best tea sprouts or tea buds, to weather conditions and different regions for Tea. Have a try of picking tea from the tea trees! Afterward visiting the tea business family to reveal the process of making all kinds of tea, let's sit down in front of the farm house and enjoy tea – more stories sharing and learning of tea, as in of wine there are Cabernet Sauvignon and Pinot Noir in tea as well! At the tea garden At the tea garden At the tea garden 4:30 PM – 6:30 PM Transfer back to Chengdu Going back to your hotel in Chengdu will normally take about 2 hours. We will transfer you there at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please click here to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Price Include: Boat ticket for Leshan Giant Buddha. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. A walking tour at an old town, includes mini food tour. Tea plantation experience and a tea famrer family & old house visit. Price Exclude: Climbing for the Leshan Giant Buddha. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Have you heard: the Buddha is a mountain, and the mountain is a Buddha?! On this tour, you will gain a panoramic view of the Leshan Giant Buddha from a boat. Discover a 500-year-old town which still preserved traditional workshops and visit a 100-year-old courtyard house, enjoy tea and share stories with local people. Follow the tea farmer to learn about tea and have a try of picking tea experience. In 1996, the Leshan Giant Buddha was listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site, together with Mount Emei. There are many more hidden Buddhist cultural treasures awaiting your discovery in this land of Buddha. Have you heard: the Buddha is a mountain, and the mountain is a Buddha?! On this tour, you will gain a panoramic view of the Leshan Giant Buddha from a boat. Discover a 500-year-old town which still preserved traditional workshops and visit a 100-year-old courtyard house, enjoy tea and share stories with local people. Follow the tea farmer to learn about tea and have a try of picking tea experience. In 1996, the Leshan Giant Buddha was listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site, together with Mount Emei. There are many more hidden Buddhist cultural treasures awaiting your discovery in this land of Buddha. Tour Highlights Escape the long queues for a close-up look at the Leshan Giant Buddha. Waste no time! Off-road visit to countryside and an ancient town has a story of history of 500 years. Visit to traditional workshops in the ancient town. Comprehensive Tea Learning - drinking in old tea house, picking tea from plantation, visit tea workshop. Visit old courtyard house and listen to stories from the owner. • Escape the long queues for a close-up look at the Leshan Giant Buddha. Waste no time! • Off-road visit to countryside and an ancient town has a story of history of 500 years. • Visit to traditional workshops in the ancient town. • Comprehensive Tea Learning - drinking in old tea house, picking tea from plantation, visit tea workshop. • Visit old courtyard house and listen to stories from the owner. The Design of the Day Trip Be part of a small group with a maximum of 10 people, absolutely no shopping detours. Free hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. A friendly and professional local English-speaking tour guide will ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. The Design of the Day Trip • Be part of a small group with a maximum of 10 people, absolutely no shopping detours. • Free hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. • A friendly and professional local English-speaking tour guide will ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Tour We will send you the tour guide information and pickup time by email and SMS Message. Before 8 pm that day, the tour guide will also contact you or leave a message for you at the hotel about the pickup time. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666. 7:00 AM - 8:00 AM Hotel Pickup The driver will wait for you at the hotel lobby (or another specified meeting place) at the appointed time, holding the logo of Trippest and your name sign. After all group members have been collected, you will be transferred to Leshan, approximately 2 hours' drive from Chengdu. Your group will have a maximum of 10 people. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: Hotel pickup and drop-off services will be available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your hotel is outside the 3rd ring road, we can arrange an additional transfer for you, or you can go to the appointed meeting place yourself. That transportation fee will be at your own expense. You will have a reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience, to ensure your safe travel. You will have a spacious and comfortable legal vehicle with A/C and unlimited bottled water. We can provide a baby seat if needed. Please specify any special requests at the time of booking. 8:00 AM - 10:30 AM Transfer to Leshan It is about 2-hour car driving from Chengdu to Leshan. The tour guide will meet and greet all of you at Leshan Port. 10:30 AM – 11:30 AMVisit Leshan Giant Buddha On arrival in Leshan, you will head to the Giant Buddha Park and be dropped off at the boat dock. You will take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha from a different perspective. The whole trip will last 15-20 minutes. The boat will take you right up to the Giant Buddha. Don't forget to take a selfie, smiling along with the Buddha. Standing 233 feet (71 meters) tall, the Leshan Giant Buddha is carved into a cliff face over-looking the confluence of the Dadu, Qingyi, and Min Rivers. The 1,200-year-old Giant Buddha holds the record as the largest Buddha sculpture in the world. His ears stretch for 7 meters, his shoulders span 28 meters, and each of his big toes is 8.5 meters long. Take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha Leshan Giant Buddha Who Built This Giant Buddha and Why? A Buddhist monk called Haitong conceived the project in AD 713, hoping that the Buddha would calm the swift river and protect fishermen from lethal currents.The huge project wasn't completed until 90 years after Haitong's death, but eventually, the story goes that just as he had once wished, the river waters calmed. Locals say it was the Grand Buddha's calming effect. Good to Know Other groups, wishing to appreciate fully the Buddha's magnitude, descend along the red sand cliff road to view the phenomenal Giant Buddha from the bottom, and climb up at the opposite side of the hill. There is always a long queue waiting to descend to the feet of the Leshan Giant Buddha. Traffic on the staircase can come to a complete standstill for about 2-3 hours at weekends or on public holidays, especially during summer vacations. To save your precious time, we do a river cruise for a panoramic view of the Buddha, rather than trying to get a close-up look. 11:30 AM – 2:00 PM A Walking Tour at A Laid-back Old Town and Taste Local Leshan Food. After visiting Buddha, there will be 40 mins drive to a laid-back old town. Take a walk around the town where traditional lifestyles still survived from the modernization. Along the way we visit traditional workshops such as blacksmith's shop, bamboo workshop, barber shop etc. Enjoy tea and chat and share stories with lovely local people in old tea house and later drop in one of the hundred-year-old courtyard house where it's owner are so proud of and love to share stories of the house. Chinese Traditional Farm Tools Rice Wine Retail Shop Old Barber Shop Taste Delicious Street Food Lunch 2:00 PM – 4:20 PM Tea Plantation Experience. A short drive takes us up to the mountain. The tea farmer will take us to the tea field, where we will learn a lot about tea from how to pick-up the best tea sprouts or tea buds, to weather conditions and different regions for Tea. Have a try of picking tea from the tea trees! Afterward visiting the tea business family to reveal the process of making all kinds of tea, let's sit down in front of the farm house and enjoy tea – more stories sharing and learning of tea, as in of wine there are Cabernet Sauvignon and Pinot Noir in tea as well! At the tea garden At the tea garden At the tea garden 4:30 PM – 6:30 PM Transfer back to Chengdu Going back to your hotel in Chengdu will normally take about 2 hours. We will transfer you there at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please click here to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Close All The Day Before Your Tour We will send you the tour guide information and pickup time by email and SMS Message. Before 8 pm that day, the tour guide will also contact you or leave a message for you at the hotel about the pickup time. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666. 7:00 AM - 8:00 AM Hotel Pickup The driver will wait for you at the hotel lobby (or another specified meeting place) at the appointed time, holding the logo of Trippest and your name sign. After all group members have been collected, you will be transferred to Leshan, approximately 2 hours' drive from Chengdu. Your group will have a maximum of 10 people. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: Hotel pickup and drop-off services will be available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your hotel is outside the 3rd ring road, we can arrange an additional transfer for you, or you can go to the appointed meeting place yourself. That transportation fee will be at your own expense. You will have a reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience, to ensure your safe travel. You will have a spacious and comfortable legal vehicle with A/C and unlimited bottled water. We can provide a baby seat if needed. Please specify any special requests at the time of booking. 8:00 AM - 10:30 AM Transfer to Leshan It is about 2-hour car driving from Chengdu to Leshan. The tour guide will meet and greet all of you at Leshan Port. 10:30 AM – 11:30 AMVisit Leshan Giant Buddha On arrival in Leshan, you will head to the Giant Buddha Park and be dropped off at the boat dock. You will take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha from a different perspective. The whole trip will last 15-20 minutes. The boat will take you right up to the Giant Buddha. Don't forget to take a selfie, smiling along with the Buddha. Standing 233 feet (71 meters) tall, the Leshan Giant Buddha is carved into a cliff face over-looking the confluence of the Dadu, Qingyi, and Min Rivers. The 1,200-year-old Giant Buddha holds the record as the largest Buddha sculpture in the world. His ears stretch for 7 meters, his shoulders span 28 meters, and each of his big toes is 8.5 meters long. Take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha Leshan Giant Buddha Who Built This Giant Buddha and Why? A Buddhist monk called Haitong conceived the project in AD 713, hoping that the Buddha would calm the swift river and protect fishermen from lethal currents.The huge project wasn't completed until 90 years after Haitong's death, but eventually, the story goes that just as he had once wished, the river waters calmed. Locals say it was the Grand Buddha's calming effect. Good to Know Other groups, wishing to appreciate fully the Buddha's magnitude, descend along the red sand cliff road to view the phenomenal Giant Buddha from the bottom, and climb up at the opposite side of the hill. There is always a long queue waiting to descend to the feet of the Leshan Giant Buddha. Traffic on the staircase can come to a complete standstill for about 2-3 hours at weekends or on public holidays, especially during summer vacations. To save your precious time, we do a river cruise for a panoramic view of the Buddha, rather than trying to get a close-up look. 11:30 AM – 2:00 PM A Walking Tour at A Laid-back Old Town and Taste Local Leshan Food. After visiting Buddha, there will be 40 mins drive to a laid-back old town. Take a walk around the town where traditional lifestyles still survived from the modernization. Along the way we visit traditional workshops such as blacksmith's shop, bamboo workshop, barber shop etc. Enjoy tea and chat and share stories with lovely local people in old tea house and later drop in one of the hundred-year-old courtyard house where it's owner are so proud of and love to share stories of the house. Chinese Traditional Farm Tools Rice Wine Retail Shop Old Barber Shop Taste Delicious Street Food Lunch 2:00 PM – 4:20 PM Tea Plantation Experience. A short drive takes us up to the mountain. The tea farmer will take us to the tea field, where we will learn a lot about tea from how to pick-up the best tea sprouts or tea buds, to weather conditions and different regions for Tea. Have a try of picking tea from the tea trees! Afterward visiting the tea business family to reveal the process of making all kinds of tea, let's sit down in front of the farm house and enjoy tea – more stories sharing and learning of tea, as in of wine there are Cabernet Sauvignon and Pinot Noir in tea as well! At the tea garden At the tea garden At the tea garden 4:30 PM – 6:30 PM Transfer back to Chengdu Going back to your hotel in Chengdu will normally take about 2 hours. We will transfer you there at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please click here to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. The Day Before Your Tour We will send you the tour guide information and pickup time by email and SMS Message. Before 8 pm that day, the tour guide will also contact you or leave a message for you at the hotel about the pickup time. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666. The Day Before Your Tour We will send you the tour guide information and pickup time by email and SMS Message. Before 8 pm that day, the tour guide will also contact you or leave a message for you at the hotel about the pickup time. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666. We will send you the tour guide information and pickup time by email and SMS Message. Before 8 pm that day, the tour guide will also contact you or leave a message for you at the hotel about the pickup time. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666. 7:00 AM - 8:00 AM Hotel Pickup The driver will wait for you at the hotel lobby (or another specified meeting place) at the appointed time, holding the logo of Trippest and your name sign. After all group members have been collected, you will be transferred to Leshan, approximately 2 hours' drive from Chengdu. Your group will have a maximum of 10 people. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: Hotel pickup and drop-off services will be available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your hotel is outside the 3rd ring road, we can arrange an additional transfer for you, or you can go to the appointed meeting place yourself. That transportation fee will be at your own expense. You will have a reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience, to ensure your safe travel. You will have a spacious and comfortable legal vehicle with A/C and unlimited bottled water. We can provide a baby seat if needed. Please specify any special requests at the time of booking. 7:00 AM - 8:00 AM Hotel Pickup The driver will wait for you at the hotel lobby (or another specified meeting place) at the appointed time, holding the logo of Trippest and your name sign. After all group members have been collected, you will be transferred to Leshan, approximately 2 hours' drive from Chengdu. Your group will have a maximum of 10 people. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: Hotel pickup and drop-off services will be available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your hotel is outside the 3rd ring road, we can arrange an additional transfer for you, or you can go to the appointed meeting place yourself. That transportation fee will be at your own expense. You will have a reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience, to ensure your safe travel. You will have a spacious and comfortable legal vehicle with A/C and unlimited bottled water. We can provide a baby seat if needed. Please specify any special requests at the time of booking. The driver will wait for you at the hotel lobby (or another specified meeting place) at the appointed time, holding the logo of Trippest and your name sign. After all group members have been collected, you will be transferred to Leshan, approximately 2 hours' drive from Chengdu. Your group will have a maximum of 10 people. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng • Hotel pickup and drop-off services will be available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your hotel is outside the 3rd ring road, we can arrange an additional transfer for you, or you can go to the appointed meeting place yourself. That transportation fee will be at your own expense. • You will have a reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience, to ensure your safe travel. • You will have a spacious and comfortable legal vehicle with A/C and unlimited bottled water. We can provide a baby seat if needed. Please specify any special requests at the time of booking. 8:00 AM - 10:30 AM Transfer to Leshan It is about 2-hour car driving from Chengdu to Leshan. The tour guide will meet and greet all of you at Leshan Port. 8:00 AM - 10:30 AM Transfer to Leshan It is about 2-hour car driving from Chengdu to Leshan. The tour guide will meet and greet all of you at Leshan Port. It is about 2-hour car driving from Chengdu to Leshan. The tour guide will meet and greet all of you at Leshan Port. 10:30 AM – 11:30 AMVisit Leshan Giant Buddha On arrival in Leshan, you will head to the Giant Buddha Park and be dropped off at the boat dock. You will take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha from a different perspective. The whole trip will last 15-20 minutes. The boat will take you right up to the Giant Buddha. Don't forget to take a selfie, smiling along with the Buddha. Standing 233 feet (71 meters) tall, the Leshan Giant Buddha is carved into a cliff face over-looking the confluence of the Dadu, Qingyi, and Min Rivers. The 1,200-year-old Giant Buddha holds the record as the largest Buddha sculpture in the world. His ears stretch for 7 meters, his shoulders span 28 meters, and each of his big toes is 8.5 meters long. Take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha Leshan Giant Buddha Who Built This Giant Buddha and Why? A Buddhist monk called Haitong conceived the project in AD 713, hoping that the Buddha would calm the swift river and protect fishermen from lethal currents.The huge project wasn't completed until 90 years after Haitong's death, but eventually, the story goes that just as he had once wished, the river waters calmed. Locals say it was the Grand Buddha's calming effect. Good to Know Other groups, wishing to appreciate fully the Buddha's magnitude, descend along the red sand cliff road to view the phenomenal Giant Buddha from the bottom, and climb up at the opposite side of the hill. There is always a long queue waiting to descend to the feet of the Leshan Giant Buddha. Traffic on the staircase can come to a complete standstill for about 2-3 hours at weekends or on public holidays, especially during summer vacations. To save your precious time, we do a river cruise for a panoramic view of the Buddha, rather than trying to get a close-up look. 10:30 AM – 11:30 AMVisit Leshan Giant Buddha On arrival in Leshan, you will head to the Giant Buddha Park and be dropped off at the boat dock. You will take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha from a different perspective. The whole trip will last 15-20 minutes. The boat will take you right up to the Giant Buddha. Don't forget to take a selfie, smiling along with the Buddha. Standing 233 feet (71 meters) tall, the Leshan Giant Buddha is carved into a cliff face over-looking the confluence of the Dadu, Qingyi, and Min Rivers. The 1,200-year-old Giant Buddha holds the record as the largest Buddha sculpture in the world. His ears stretch for 7 meters, his shoulders span 28 meters, and each of his big toes is 8.5 meters long. Take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha Leshan Giant Buddha Who Built This Giant Buddha and Why? A Buddhist monk called Haitong conceived the project in AD 713, hoping that the Buddha would calm the swift river and protect fishermen from lethal currents.The huge project wasn't completed until 90 years after Haitong's death, but eventually, the story goes that just as he had once wished, the river waters calmed. Locals say it was the Grand Buddha's calming effect. Good to Know Other groups, wishing to appreciate fully the Buddha's magnitude, descend along the red sand cliff road to view the phenomenal Giant Buddha from the bottom, and climb up at the opposite side of the hill. There is always a long queue waiting to descend to the feet of the Leshan Giant Buddha. Traffic on the staircase can come to a complete standstill for about 2-3 hours at weekends or on public holidays, especially during summer vacations. To save your precious time, we do a river cruise for a panoramic view of the Buddha, rather than trying to get a close-up look. On arrival in Leshan, you will head to the Giant Buddha Park and be dropped off at the boat dock. You will take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha from a different perspective. The whole trip will last 15-20 minutes. The boat will take you right up to the Giant Buddha. Don't forget to take a selfie, smiling along with the Buddha. Standing 233 feet (71 meters) tall, the Leshan Giant Buddha is carved into a cliff face over-looking the confluence of the Dadu, Qingyi, and Min Rivers. The 1,200-year-old Giant Buddha holds the record as the largest Buddha sculpture in the world. His ears stretch for 7 meters, his shoulders span 28 meters, and each of his big toes is 8.5 meters long. Take a boat ride on the river to see the Buddha Who Built This Giant Buddha and Why? • A Buddhist monk called Haitong conceived the project in AD 713, hoping that the Buddha would calm the swift river and protect fishermen from lethal currents.The huge project wasn't completed until 90 years after Haitong's death, but eventually, the story goes that just as he had once wished, the river waters calmed. Locals say it was the Grand Buddha's calming effect. • Other groups, wishing to appreciate fully the Buddha's magnitude, descend along the red sand cliff road to view the phenomenal Giant Buddha from the bottom, and climb up at the opposite side of the hill. There is always a long queue waiting to descend to the feet of the Leshan Giant Buddha. • Traffic on the staircase can come to a complete standstill for about 2-3 hours at weekends or on public holidays, especially during summer vacations. To save your precious time, we do a river cruise for a panoramic view of the Buddha, rather than trying to get a close-up look. 11:30 AM – 2:00 PM A Walking Tour at A Laid-back Old Town and Taste Local Leshan Food. After visiting Buddha, there will be 40 mins drive to a laid-back old town. Take a walk around the town where traditional lifestyles still survived from the modernization. Along the way we visit traditional workshops such as blacksmith's shop, bamboo workshop, barber shop etc. Enjoy tea and chat and share stories with lovely local people in old tea house and later drop in one of the hundred-year-old courtyard house where it's owner are so proud of and love to share stories of the house. Chinese Traditional Farm Tools Rice Wine Retail Shop Old Barber Shop Taste Delicious Street Food Lunch 11:30 AM – 2:00 PM A Walking Tour at A Laid-back Old Town and Taste Local Leshan Food. After visiting Buddha, there will be 40 mins drive to a laid-back old town. Take a walk around the town where traditional lifestyles still survived from the modernization. Along the way we visit traditional workshops such as blacksmith's shop, bamboo workshop, barber shop etc. Enjoy tea and chat and share stories with lovely local people in old tea house and later drop in one of the hundred-year-old courtyard house where it's owner are so proud of and love to share stories of the house. Chinese Traditional Farm Tools Rice Wine Retail Shop Old Barber Shop Taste Delicious Street Food Lunch After visiting Buddha, there will be 40 mins drive to a laid-back old town. Take a walk around the town where traditional lifestyles still survived from the modernization. Along the way we visit traditional workshops such as blacksmith's shop, bamboo workshop, barber shop etc. Enjoy tea and chat and share stories with lovely local people in old tea house and later drop in one of the hundred-year-old courtyard house where it's owner are so proud of and love to share stories of the house. Chinese Traditional Farm Tools Rice Wine Retail Shop Taste Delicious Street Food Lunch 2:00 PM – 4:20 PM Tea Plantation Experience. A short drive takes us up to the mountain. The tea farmer will take us to the tea field, where we will learn a lot about tea from how to pick-up the best tea sprouts or tea buds, to weather conditions and different regions for Tea. Have a try of picking tea from the tea trees! Afterward visiting the tea business family to reveal the process of making all kinds of tea, let's sit down in front of the farm house and enjoy tea – more stories sharing and learning of tea, as in of wine there are Cabernet Sauvignon and Pinot Noir in tea as well! At the tea garden At the tea garden At the tea garden 2:00 PM – 4:20 PM Tea Plantation Experience. A short drive takes us up to the mountain. The tea farmer will take us to the tea field, where we will learn a lot about tea from how to pick-up the best tea sprouts or tea buds, to weather conditions and different regions for Tea. Have a try of picking tea from the tea trees! Afterward visiting the tea business family to reveal the process of making all kinds of tea, let's sit down in front of the farm house and enjoy tea – more stories sharing and learning of tea, as in of wine there are Cabernet Sauvignon and Pinot Noir in tea as well! At the tea garden At the tea garden At the tea garden A short drive takes us up to the mountain. The tea farmer will take us to the tea field, where we will learn a lot about tea from how to pick-up the best tea sprouts or tea buds, to weather conditions and different regions for Tea. Have a try of picking tea from the tea trees! Afterward visiting the tea business family to reveal the process of making all kinds of tea, let's sit down in front of the farm house and enjoy tea – more stories sharing and learning of tea, as in of wine there are Cabernet Sauvignon and Pinot Noir in tea as well! 4:30 PM – 6:30 PM Transfer back to Chengdu Going back to your hotel in Chengdu will normally take about 2 hours. We will transfer you there at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please click here to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. 4:30 PM – 6:30 PM Transfer back to Chengdu Going back to your hotel in Chengdu will normally take about 2 hours. We will transfer you there at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please click here to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Going back to your hotel in Chengdu will normally take about 2 hours. We will transfer you there at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights departing after 10 pm or trains departing after 9:30 pm. Please click here to book the airport transfer for your onward flight. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Price Include: Boat ticket for Leshan Giant Buddha. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. A walking tour at an old town, includes mini food tour. Tea plantation experience and a tea famrer family & old house visit. Price Exclude: Climbing for the Leshan Giant Buddha. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Price Include: Boat ticket for Leshan Giant Buddha. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. A walking tour at an old town, includes mini food tour. Tea plantation experience and a tea famrer family & old house visit. Price Exclude: Climbing for the Leshan Giant Buddha. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Price Include: Boat ticket for Leshan Giant Buddha. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. A walking tour at an old town, includes mini food tour. Tea plantation experience and a tea famrer family & old house visit. Price Exclude: Climbing for the Leshan Giant Buddha. Personal expenses. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). • Boat ticket for Leshan Giant Buddha. • Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. • English-speaking local guide service. • A walking tour at an old town, includes mini food tour. • Tea plantation experience and a tea famrer family & old house visit. • Climbing for the Leshan Giant Buddha. • Personal expenses. • Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 177 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 177 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 177 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20