ID: 45d95c0f3af0dcf6
Title: Top Xinjiang Tours 2025/2026: Customize Your Silk Road Adventure
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xinjiang/tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Xinjiang is outlined by the Altai Mountains to the north, Altun to the east, Pamirs to the west, and Kunlun to the south, cradling diverse landscapes like snowy peaks, forests, lakes, grasslands, deserts, Yardang formations, and canyons. It is also the homeland of 13 Chinese ethnic minorities. North Xinjiang: Nomadic cultures with a free-living feel and romantic temperament. South Xinjiang: Oasis cultures and the Silk Road with an exotic and profound backdrop. No matter whether you are attracted by Xinjiang's fantastic landscapes, its ancient culture, or its ethnic minority flavor, we are well prepared to offer the best suggestions according to your schedule and interests. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. Xinjiang is outlined by the Altai Mountains to the north, Altun to the east, Pamirs to the west, and Kunlun to the south, cradling diverse landscapes like snowy peaks, forests, lakes, grasslands, deserts, Yardang formations, and canyons. It is also the homeland of 13 Chinese ethnic minorities. North Xinjiang: Nomadic cultures with a free-living feel and romantic temperament. South Xinjiang: Oasis cultures and the Silk Road with an exotic and profound backdrop. No matter whether you are attracted by Xinjiang's fantastic landscapes, its ancient culture, or its ethnic minority flavor, we are well prepared to offer the best suggestions according to your schedule and interests. Xinjiang is outlined by the Altai Mountains to the north, Altun to the east, Pamirs to the west, and Kunlun to the south, cradling diverse landscapes like snowy peaks, forests, lakes, grasslands, deserts, Yardang formations, and canyons. It is also the homeland of 13 Chinese ethnic minorities. • North Xinjiang: Nomadic cultures with a free-living feel and romantic temperament. • South Xinjiang: Oasis cultures and the Silk Road with an exotic and profound backdrop. No matter whether you are attracted by Xinjiang's fantastic landscapes, its ancient culture, or its ethnic minority flavor, we are well prepared to offer the best suggestions according to your schedule and interests. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. With China Highlights, your travel will be: • FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. • ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. • No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. Top Private Xinjiang Tours The suggested itineraries below cover the most popular destinations in Xinjiang. All of them can be customized into your own personalized Xinjiang tour. 7-Day Xinjiang Highlights Tour Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar View More 8-Day Xinjiang Tour with Ili River Valley Urumqi, Sayram Lake, Kalajun Grassland, Heavenly Mountains, and Yining View More 12-Day South Xinjiang Adventure Tour Urumqi, Turpan, Korla, Kuqa, Alear City, Khotan, and Kashgar View More 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas Urumqi, Burqin, Kanas, Hemu, and Karamay View More Top Private Xinjiang Tours The suggested itineraries below cover the most popular destinations in Xinjiang. All of them can be customized into your own personalized Xinjiang tour. 7-Day Xinjiang Highlights Tour Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar View More 8-Day Xinjiang Tour with Ili River Valley Urumqi, Sayram Lake, Kalajun Grassland, Heavenly Mountains, and Yining View More 12-Day South Xinjiang Adventure Tour Urumqi, Turpan, Korla, Kuqa, Alear City, Khotan, and Kashgar View More 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas Urumqi, Burqin, Kanas, Hemu, and Karamay View More 7-Day Xinjiang Highlights Tour Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar View More 7-Day Xinjiang Highlights Tour Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar View More Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar 8-Day Xinjiang Tour with Ili River Valley Urumqi, Sayram Lake, Kalajun Grassland, Heavenly Mountains, and Yining View More 8-Day Xinjiang Tour with Ili River Valley Urumqi, Sayram Lake, Kalajun Grassland, Heavenly Mountains, and Yining View More Urumqi, Sayram Lake, Kalajun Grassland, Heavenly Mountains, and Yining 12-Day South Xinjiang Adventure Tour Urumqi, Turpan, Korla, Kuqa, Alear City, Khotan, and Kashgar View More 12-Day South Xinjiang Adventure Tour Urumqi, Turpan, Korla, Kuqa, Alear City, Khotan, and Kashgar View More Urumqi, Turpan, Korla, Kuqa, Alear City, Khotan, and Kashgar 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas Urumqi, Burqin, Kanas, Hemu, and Karamay View More 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas Urumqi, Burqin, Kanas, Hemu, and Karamay View More Urumqi, Burqin, Kanas, Hemu, and Karamay Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Classic Silk Road Tours including Xinjiang The following routes are examples to help you extend your Xinjiang tour to make a Silk Road tour. All these tour packages can be changed according to your needs. 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 13-Day Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai View More 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour Xi'an, Lanzhou, Linxia, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Chengdu, and Lhasa View More 12-Day Silk Road In-depth Tour Xi'an, Tianshui, Linxia, Xiahe, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi View More 10-Day Xinjiang, Gansu, and Qinghai Highlights Tour Xining, Qinghai Lake, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi View More 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar View More 21-Day The Great Silk Road Tour Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Kashgar, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan View More Classic Silk Road Tours including Xinjiang The following routes are examples to help you extend your Xinjiang tour to make a Silk Road tour. All these tour packages can be changed according to your needs. 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 13-Day Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai View More 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour Xi'an, Lanzhou, Linxia, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Chengdu, and Lhasa View More 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai 13-Day Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai View More 13-Day Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour Xi'an, Lanzhou, Linxia, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Chengdu, and Lhasa View More 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour Xi'an, Lanzhou, Linxia, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Chengdu, and Lhasa View More Xi'an, Lanzhou, Linxia, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, Chengdu, and Lhasa 12-Day Silk Road In-depth Tour Xi'an, Tianshui, Linxia, Xiahe, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi View More 10-Day Xinjiang, Gansu, and Qinghai Highlights Tour Xining, Qinghai Lake, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi View More 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar View More 21-Day The Great Silk Road Tour Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Kashgar, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan View More 12-Day Silk Road In-depth Tour Xi'an, Tianshui, Linxia, Xiahe, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi View More 12-Day Silk Road In-depth Tour Xi'an, Tianshui, Linxia, Xiahe, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi View More Xi'an, Tianshui, Linxia, Xiahe, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi 10-Day Xinjiang, Gansu, and Qinghai Highlights Tour Xining, Qinghai Lake, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi View More 10-Day Xinjiang, Gansu, and Qinghai Highlights Tour Xining, Qinghai Lake, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi View More Xining, Qinghai Lake, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, and Urumqi 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar View More 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar View More Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Urumqi, Turpan, and Kashgar 21-Day The Great Silk Road Tour Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Kashgar, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan View More 21-Day The Great Silk Road Tour Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Kashgar, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan View More Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan, Kashgar, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice FAQ for Xinjiang Travel Expand All 1. Is It Safe to Visit Xinjiang? Yes, Xinjiang is safe to visit. The Uyghur people are friendly and hospitable. Most visitors feel it is totally safe in the main tourist areas, though there may be an elevated police presence. During your Xinjiang tour with China Highlights, you will have a personal guide and driver. They will escort you to make sure your tour goes smoothly and resolve any problems, though there seldom are any. Your guide will advise you on local customs to avoid any awkwardness. 2. What's the Weather Like in Xinjiang? Generally speaking, Xinjiang has low rainfall and large temperature differences between day and night and season to season. North Xinjiang, which has vast grasslands, forests, and high mountains, is wetter and cooler than southern Xinjiang (Kashgar, Turpan, Hetian, Aksu, etc.), which has huge deserts. The hottest place in Xinjiang is Turpan, where the temperature could be over 40°C (104°F) in July. In Xinjiang, you could experience four seasons in one day. So, we suggest bringing a jacket and sweater besides t-shirts even in summertime. 3. What about Accommodation in Xinjiang? Hotel choices, especially for foreign visitors, in Xinjiang are limited, particularly luxury hotels. Most of the local hotels are not as modern as those in central and eastern China. Hotel management is not as good as in other parts of China either. We will help you select and book the best possible hotels for your Xinjiang tour according to your needs/requests. 4. What about the Food in Xinjiang? Local people eat a lot of beef and lamb and prefer dishes with strong flavors. Vegetable choices are not as varied as in eastern China. You can have great noodles, Xinjiang crusty pancakes, and delicious roast dumplings. Xinjiang fried rice should not be missed either. Xinjiang is also a paradise for fruit lovers. You can enjoy China's best watermelons, honey melons, apples, pears, grapes, pomegranates, cherries, apricots… FAQ for Xinjiang Travel Expand All 1. Is It Safe to Visit Xinjiang? Yes, Xinjiang is safe to visit. The Uyghur people are friendly and hospitable. Most visitors feel it is totally safe in the main tourist areas, though there may be an elevated police presence. During your Xinjiang tour with China Highlights, you will have a personal guide and driver. They will escort you to make sure your tour goes smoothly and resolve any problems, though there seldom are any. Your guide will advise you on local customs to avoid any awkwardness. 2. What's the Weather Like in Xinjiang? Generally speaking, Xinjiang has low rainfall and large temperature differences between day and night and season to season. North Xinjiang, which has vast grasslands, forests, and high mountains, is wetter and cooler than southern Xinjiang (Kashgar, Turpan, Hetian, Aksu, etc.), which has huge deserts. The hottest place in Xinjiang is Turpan, where the temperature could be over 40°C (104°F) in July. In Xinjiang, you could experience four seasons in one day. So, we suggest bringing a jacket and sweater besides t-shirts even in summertime. 3. What about Accommodation in Xinjiang? Hotel choices, especially for foreign visitors, in Xinjiang are limited, particularly luxury hotels. Most of the local hotels are not as modern as those in central and eastern China. Hotel management is not as good as in other parts of China either. We will help you select and book the best possible hotels for your Xinjiang tour according to your needs/requests. 4. What about the Food in Xinjiang? Local people eat a lot of beef and lamb and prefer dishes with strong flavors. Vegetable choices are not as varied as in eastern China. You can have great noodles, Xinjiang crusty pancakes, and delicious roast dumplings. Xinjiang fried rice should not be missed either. Xinjiang is also a paradise for fruit lovers. You can enjoy China's best watermelons, honey melons, apples, pears, grapes, pomegranates, cherries, apricots… 1. Is It Safe to Visit Xinjiang? Yes, Xinjiang is safe to visit. The Uyghur people are friendly and hospitable. Most visitors feel it is totally safe in the main tourist areas, though there may be an elevated police presence. During your Xinjiang tour with China Highlights, you will have a personal guide and driver. They will escort you to make sure your tour goes smoothly and resolve any problems, though there seldom are any. Your guide will advise you on local customs to avoid any awkwardness. Yes, Xinjiang is safe to visit. The Uyghur people are friendly and hospitable. Most visitors feel it is totally safe in the main tourist areas, though there may be an elevated police presence. During your Xinjiang tour with China Highlights, you will have a personal guide and driver. They will escort you to make sure your tour goes smoothly and resolve any problems, though there seldom are any. Your guide will advise you on local customs to avoid any awkwardness. 2. What's the Weather Like in Xinjiang? Generally speaking, Xinjiang has low rainfall and large temperature differences between day and night and season to season. North Xinjiang, which has vast grasslands, forests, and high mountains, is wetter and cooler than southern Xinjiang (Kashgar, Turpan, Hetian, Aksu, etc.), which has huge deserts. The hottest place in Xinjiang is Turpan, where the temperature could be over 40°C (104°F) in July. In Xinjiang, you could experience four seasons in one day. So, we suggest bringing a jacket and sweater besides t-shirts even in summertime. Generally speaking, Xinjiang has low rainfall and large temperature differences between day and night and season to season. North Xinjiang, which has vast grasslands, forests, and high mountains, is wetter and cooler than southern Xinjiang (Kashgar, Turpan, Hetian, Aksu, etc.), which has huge deserts. The hottest place in Xinjiang is Turpan, where the temperature could be over 40°C (104°F) in July. In Xinjiang, you could experience four seasons in one day. So, we suggest bringing a jacket and sweater besides t-shirts even in summertime. 3. What about Accommodation in Xinjiang? Hotel choices, especially for foreign visitors, in Xinjiang are limited, particularly luxury hotels. Most of the local hotels are not as modern as those in central and eastern China. Hotel management is not as good as in other parts of China either. We will help you select and book the best possible hotels for your Xinjiang tour according to your needs/requests. Hotel choices, especially for foreign visitors, in Xinjiang are limited, particularly luxury hotels. Most of the local hotels are not as modern as those in central and eastern China. Hotel management is not as good as in other parts of China either. We will help you select and book the best possible hotels for your Xinjiang tour according to your needs/requests. 4. What about the Food in Xinjiang? Local people eat a lot of beef and lamb and prefer dishes with strong flavors. Vegetable choices are not as varied as in eastern China. You can have great noodles, Xinjiang crusty pancakes, and delicious roast dumplings. Xinjiang fried rice should not be missed either. Xinjiang is also a paradise for fruit lovers. You can enjoy China's best watermelons, honey melons, apples, pears, grapes, pomegranates, cherries, apricots… Local people eat a lot of beef and lamb and prefer dishes with strong flavors. Vegetable choices are not as varied as in eastern China. You can have great noodles, Xinjiang crusty pancakes, and delicious roast dumplings. Xinjiang fried rice should not be missed either. Xinjiang is also a paradise for fruit lovers. You can enjoy China's best watermelons, honey melons, apples, pears, grapes, pomegranates, cherries, apricots…