ID: 5260d65e1ab23a87
Title: 1-day Hong Kong Landmarks Visit with Michelin Dim Sum
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/hongkong/1-day-hongkong-landmarks-and-dimsum-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Embark on a day trip to Hong Kong's vibrant city centre where we'll visit iconic landmarks such as the stunning skyline of Victoria Peak, Hong Kong's cultural center Tai Kwun, and the traditional ancient Man Mo Temple. Experience a wealth of activities such as riding the historic Peak Tram, traversing the Mid-Levels escalators, tasting authentic dim sum, getting into local's life by exploring hidden gems. Immerse yourself in the charm of the city and feel the unique combination of Eastern and Western cultures of Hong Kong. Tour Highlights Skip the line at the Peak Tram via group fast track. Get stunning bird-view of Hong Kong skyline from Victoria Peak. Visit famous Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, Mid-Levels Escalators and Hollywood street in the Central. Taste 10 kinds of delicious Dim Sum in a Michelin restaurant. Travel smoothly with a professional local guide and comfortable air-conditional bus. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 9:00 am Meet your guide There're two meeting points, located in Kowloon area and Hong Kong Island respectively. You may choose the one that is most convenient for you. We will wait 5 more minutes at each meeting point. At 9:00 am, Meet us outside The Kowloon Hotel (Tsim Sha Tsui area). If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Tsim Sha Tsui Station L3. At 9:30 am, Meet us outside the McDonald's at Admiralty Center. If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Admiralty Station Exit A. Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival, as the vehicle can only stop briefly. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Points (Pic from Google Map) 10:00 am Visit landmarks in Hong Kong Firstly, we will take bus to the top 1 must-see attraction in Hong Kong. You’ll enjoy skip-the-line via group channel to experience the quickest and most scenic way to reach up the highest point on Hong Kong Island (552 meters) - Victoria Peak by the legendary Peak Tram. Victoria Peak is the highest point on Hong Kong Island. Standing on the Lion's Point View Pavilion, you can enjoy an amazing 360-degree panoramic view of Hong Kong's skyscrapers. During the day with a good weather, you can see everything from the shiny buildings and Victoria Harbor to the green hills of the New Territories. Don't forget to check out Madame Tussauds Wax Museum, the Peak Tower, and Sky Terrace 428 for more fun. One of the best way to get to the Victoria Peak is hopping on the Peak Tram which has been operating for more than 130 years (open in 1888) as one of the world’s oldest funicular railways. The tram ride is so steep that it feels like the buildings on the way up are leaning at crazy angles ranging from 4 to 27 degrees, giving you a really special visual experience. Peak Tram Then, we'll transfer to the Central to experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. It starts from Connaught Road Central, runs to the Hang Seng Bank Building on Des Voeux Road Central, then passes through the Central Market and continues to climb past Hollywood Road to the prime Mid-levels residential district. Our guide will share you some interesting facts about the local daily life, stores around here and so on. The next stop is to visit the Tai Kwun that is Hong Kong’s cultural heart, enabled by The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC) in partnership with the Hong Kong SAR Government. A vibrant, welcoming space that brings people together, Tai Kwun is committed to inspiring the community through arts, culture and heritage. Located in the heart of the Central, Hong Kong, Tai Kwun brings creative energy into our city by providing the people of Hong Kong with access to a variety of immersive, world-class experiences. After that, we will stroll through the Hollywood Road and experience the local antique market. Most Hollywood Road antique shops are located on its western end, centered around Ladder Street and Upper Lascar Row (Cat Street Market). Farther east are more boutique shops and art galleries—Hollywood Road today is one of the top places to view and buy contemporary Chinese art. It's also a chance to learn about the bargaining culture with the locals. The last stop in the Central is the iconic Man Mo Temple, a historic Taoist temple dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It's located on Hollywood Road in Sheung Wan and consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. It was built by wealthy Chinese merchants between 1847 and 1862. Man Mo Temple was mainly for the worship of Man Cheong (God of Literature) and Mo Tai (God of Martial Arts). The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. 2:00 pm Enjoy Michelin Dim Sum We will enjoy 10 kinds of delicious dim sum from Tim Ho Wan (2010-2021 Michelin Star awarded), such as Shrimp Dumplings, Siu Mai, and Steamed BBQ Pork Bun, etc. Dim Sum is a must-try Cantonese dish in Hong Kong. With over 1,000 lovely pastries and desserts, handcrafted with fresh and healthy ingredients, breakfast becomes exquisite and heartwarming. 3:00 pm Tour ends Finally, our tour will end at Avenue of Stars, a tribute to Hong Kong's former film industry glory with the 2.5-meter tall bronze statue of the legendary Bruce Lee. While at the Avenue of Stars, catch the Symphony of Lights show starting at 8:00 PM, the world's biggest permanent laser light show beaming from 42 skyscrapers. Suggested itineraries after our tour: You can get the magnificant skyline view of Hong Kong in the sky100 Hong Kong Observation Deck. Or go shopping in K11 Art Mall which is one of the most prosperous shopping mall in Hong Kong. You can enjoy your dinner around the Avenue of Star where you can find various restaurants like local Cantonese cuisines, Michelin starred culinary surprises, various authentic exotic delicacies, etc. You can experience the Star Ferry back to the Central to get a lively nightlife. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Know Before You Book Departure date & time: Departure Date Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Departure Time N/A 1:30pm 9:00am 1:30pm 9:00am 1:30pm 9:00am Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Tidy and air-conditioned vehicle. Round-way peak tram tickets. Admission tickets for all listed attractions. A meal of Michelin Dim Sum. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Embark on a day trip to Hong Kong's vibrant city centre where we'll visit iconic landmarks such as the stunning skyline of Victoria Peak, Hong Kong's cultural center Tai Kwun, and the traditional ancient Man Mo Temple. Experience a wealth of activities such as riding the historic Peak Tram, traversing the Mid-Levels escalators, tasting authentic dim sum, getting into local's life by exploring hidden gems. Immerse yourself in the charm of the city and feel the unique combination of Eastern and Western cultures of Hong Kong. Embark on a day trip to Hong Kong's vibrant city centre where we'll visit iconic landmarks such as the stunning skyline of Victoria Peak, Hong Kong's cultural center Tai Kwun, and the traditional ancient Man Mo Temple. Experience a wealth of activities such as riding the historic Peak Tram, traversing the Mid-Levels escalators, tasting authentic dim sum, getting into local's life by exploring hidden gems. Immerse yourself in the charm of the city and feel the unique combination of Eastern and Western cultures of Hong Kong. Tour Highlights Skip the line at the Peak Tram via group fast track. Get stunning bird-view of Hong Kong skyline from Victoria Peak. Visit famous Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, Mid-Levels Escalators and Hollywood street in the Central. Taste 10 kinds of delicious Dim Sum in a Michelin restaurant. Travel smoothly with a professional local guide and comfortable air-conditional bus. • Skip the line at the Peak Tram via group fast track. • Get stunning bird-view of Hong Kong skyline from Victoria Peak. • Visit famous Tai Kwun, Man Mo Temple, Mid-Levels Escalators and Hollywood street in the Central. • Taste 10 kinds of delicious Dim Sum in a Michelin restaurant. • Travel smoothly with a professional local guide and comfortable air-conditional bus. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 9:00 am Meet your guide There're two meeting points, located in Kowloon area and Hong Kong Island respectively. You may choose the one that is most convenient for you. We will wait 5 more minutes at each meeting point. At 9:00 am, Meet us outside The Kowloon Hotel (Tsim Sha Tsui area). If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Tsim Sha Tsui Station L3. At 9:30 am, Meet us outside the McDonald's at Admiralty Center. If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Admiralty Station Exit A. Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival, as the vehicle can only stop briefly. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Points (Pic from Google Map) 10:00 am Visit landmarks in Hong Kong Firstly, we will take bus to the top 1 must-see attraction in Hong Kong. You’ll enjoy skip-the-line via group channel to experience the quickest and most scenic way to reach up the highest point on Hong Kong Island (552 meters) - Victoria Peak by the legendary Peak Tram. Victoria Peak is the highest point on Hong Kong Island. Standing on the Lion's Point View Pavilion, you can enjoy an amazing 360-degree panoramic view of Hong Kong's skyscrapers. During the day with a good weather, you can see everything from the shiny buildings and Victoria Harbor to the green hills of the New Territories. Don't forget to check out Madame Tussauds Wax Museum, the Peak Tower, and Sky Terrace 428 for more fun. One of the best way to get to the Victoria Peak is hopping on the Peak Tram which has been operating for more than 130 years (open in 1888) as one of the world’s oldest funicular railways. The tram ride is so steep that it feels like the buildings on the way up are leaning at crazy angles ranging from 4 to 27 degrees, giving you a really special visual experience. Peak Tram Then, we'll transfer to the Central to experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. It starts from Connaught Road Central, runs to the Hang Seng Bank Building on Des Voeux Road Central, then passes through the Central Market and continues to climb past Hollywood Road to the prime Mid-levels residential district. Our guide will share you some interesting facts about the local daily life, stores around here and so on. The next stop is to visit the Tai Kwun that is Hong Kong’s cultural heart, enabled by The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC) in partnership with the Hong Kong SAR Government. A vibrant, welcoming space that brings people together, Tai Kwun is committed to inspiring the community through arts, culture and heritage. Located in the heart of the Central, Hong Kong, Tai Kwun brings creative energy into our city by providing the people of Hong Kong with access to a variety of immersive, world-class experiences. After that, we will stroll through the Hollywood Road and experience the local antique market. Most Hollywood Road antique shops are located on its western end, centered around Ladder Street and Upper Lascar Row (Cat Street Market). Farther east are more boutique shops and art galleries—Hollywood Road today is one of the top places to view and buy contemporary Chinese art. It's also a chance to learn about the bargaining culture with the locals. The last stop in the Central is the iconic Man Mo Temple, a historic Taoist temple dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It's located on Hollywood Road in Sheung Wan and consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. It was built by wealthy Chinese merchants between 1847 and 1862. Man Mo Temple was mainly for the worship of Man Cheong (God of Literature) and Mo Tai (God of Martial Arts). The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. 2:00 pm Enjoy Michelin Dim Sum We will enjoy 10 kinds of delicious dim sum from Tim Ho Wan (2010-2021 Michelin Star awarded), such as Shrimp Dumplings, Siu Mai, and Steamed BBQ Pork Bun, etc. Dim Sum is a must-try Cantonese dish in Hong Kong. With over 1,000 lovely pastries and desserts, handcrafted with fresh and healthy ingredients, breakfast becomes exquisite and heartwarming. 3:00 pm Tour ends Finally, our tour will end at Avenue of Stars, a tribute to Hong Kong's former film industry glory with the 2.5-meter tall bronze statue of the legendary Bruce Lee. While at the Avenue of Stars, catch the Symphony of Lights show starting at 8:00 PM, the world's biggest permanent laser light show beaming from 42 skyscrapers. Suggested itineraries after our tour: You can get the magnificant skyline view of Hong Kong in the sky100 Hong Kong Observation Deck. Or go shopping in K11 Art Mall which is one of the most prosperous shopping mall in Hong Kong. You can enjoy your dinner around the Avenue of Star where you can find various restaurants like local Cantonese cuisines, Michelin starred culinary surprises, various authentic exotic delicacies, etc. You can experience the Star Ferry back to the Central to get a lively nightlife. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 9:00 am Meet your guide There're two meeting points, located in Kowloon area and Hong Kong Island respectively. You may choose the one that is most convenient for you. We will wait 5 more minutes at each meeting point. At 9:00 am, Meet us outside The Kowloon Hotel (Tsim Sha Tsui area). If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Tsim Sha Tsui Station L3. At 9:30 am, Meet us outside the McDonald's at Admiralty Center. If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Admiralty Station Exit A. Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival, as the vehicle can only stop briefly. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Points (Pic from Google Map) 10:00 am Visit landmarks in Hong Kong Firstly, we will take bus to the top 1 must-see attraction in Hong Kong. You’ll enjoy skip-the-line via group channel to experience the quickest and most scenic way to reach up the highest point on Hong Kong Island (552 meters) - Victoria Peak by the legendary Peak Tram. Victoria Peak is the highest point on Hong Kong Island. Standing on the Lion's Point View Pavilion, you can enjoy an amazing 360-degree panoramic view of Hong Kong's skyscrapers. During the day with a good weather, you can see everything from the shiny buildings and Victoria Harbor to the green hills of the New Territories. Don't forget to check out Madame Tussauds Wax Museum, the Peak Tower, and Sky Terrace 428 for more fun. One of the best way to get to the Victoria Peak is hopping on the Peak Tram which has been operating for more than 130 years (open in 1888) as one of the world’s oldest funicular railways. The tram ride is so steep that it feels like the buildings on the way up are leaning at crazy angles ranging from 4 to 27 degrees, giving you a really special visual experience. Peak Tram Then, we'll transfer to the Central to experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. It starts from Connaught Road Central, runs to the Hang Seng Bank Building on Des Voeux Road Central, then passes through the Central Market and continues to climb past Hollywood Road to the prime Mid-levels residential district. Our guide will share you some interesting facts about the local daily life, stores around here and so on. The next stop is to visit the Tai Kwun that is Hong Kong’s cultural heart, enabled by The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC) in partnership with the Hong Kong SAR Government. A vibrant, welcoming space that brings people together, Tai Kwun is committed to inspiring the community through arts, culture and heritage. Located in the heart of the Central, Hong Kong, Tai Kwun brings creative energy into our city by providing the people of Hong Kong with access to a variety of immersive, world-class experiences. After that, we will stroll through the Hollywood Road and experience the local antique market. Most Hollywood Road antique shops are located on its western end, centered around Ladder Street and Upper Lascar Row (Cat Street Market). Farther east are more boutique shops and art galleries—Hollywood Road today is one of the top places to view and buy contemporary Chinese art. It's also a chance to learn about the bargaining culture with the locals. The last stop in the Central is the iconic Man Mo Temple, a historic Taoist temple dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It's located on Hollywood Road in Sheung Wan and consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. It was built by wealthy Chinese merchants between 1847 and 1862. Man Mo Temple was mainly for the worship of Man Cheong (God of Literature) and Mo Tai (God of Martial Arts). The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. 2:00 pm Enjoy Michelin Dim Sum We will enjoy 10 kinds of delicious dim sum from Tim Ho Wan (2010-2021 Michelin Star awarded), such as Shrimp Dumplings, Siu Mai, and Steamed BBQ Pork Bun, etc. Dim Sum is a must-try Cantonese dish in Hong Kong. With over 1,000 lovely pastries and desserts, handcrafted with fresh and healthy ingredients, breakfast becomes exquisite and heartwarming. 3:00 pm Tour ends Finally, our tour will end at Avenue of Stars, a tribute to Hong Kong's former film industry glory with the 2.5-meter tall bronze statue of the legendary Bruce Lee. While at the Avenue of Stars, catch the Symphony of Lights show starting at 8:00 PM, the world's biggest permanent laser light show beaming from 42 skyscrapers. Suggested itineraries after our tour: You can get the magnificant skyline view of Hong Kong in the sky100 Hong Kong Observation Deck. Or go shopping in K11 Art Mall which is one of the most prosperous shopping mall in Hong Kong. You can enjoy your dinner around the Avenue of Star where you can find various restaurants like local Cantonese cuisines, Michelin starred culinary surprises, various authentic exotic delicacies, etc. You can experience the Star Ferry back to the Central to get a lively nightlife. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 9:00 am Meet your guide There're two meeting points, located in Kowloon area and Hong Kong Island respectively. You may choose the one that is most convenient for you. We will wait 5 more minutes at each meeting point. At 9:00 am, Meet us outside The Kowloon Hotel (Tsim Sha Tsui area). If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Tsim Sha Tsui Station L3. At 9:30 am, Meet us outside the McDonald's at Admiralty Center. If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Admiralty Station Exit A. Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival, as the vehicle can only stop briefly. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Points (Pic from Google Map) 9:00 am Meet your guide There're two meeting points, located in Kowloon area and Hong Kong Island respectively. You may choose the one that is most convenient for you. We will wait 5 more minutes at each meeting point. At 9:00 am, Meet us outside The Kowloon Hotel (Tsim Sha Tsui area). If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Tsim Sha Tsui Station L3. At 9:30 am, Meet us outside the McDonald's at Admiralty Center. If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Admiralty Station Exit A. Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival, as the vehicle can only stop briefly. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Points (Pic from Google Map) There're two meeting points, located in Kowloon area and Hong Kong Island respectively. You may choose the one that is most convenient for you. We will wait 5 more minutes at each meeting point. • At 9:00 am, Meet us outside The Kowloon Hotel (Tsim Sha Tsui area). If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Tsim Sha Tsui Station L3. • At 9:30 am, Meet us outside the McDonald's at Admiralty Center. If you take the MTR (Hong Kong subway/underground), please exit at Admiralty Station Exit A. • Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival, as the vehicle can only stop briefly. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Points (Pic from Google Map) 10:00 am Visit landmarks in Hong Kong Firstly, we will take bus to the top 1 must-see attraction in Hong Kong. You’ll enjoy skip-the-line via group channel to experience the quickest and most scenic way to reach up the highest point on Hong Kong Island (552 meters) - Victoria Peak by the legendary Peak Tram. Victoria Peak is the highest point on Hong Kong Island. Standing on the Lion's Point View Pavilion, you can enjoy an amazing 360-degree panoramic view of Hong Kong's skyscrapers. During the day with a good weather, you can see everything from the shiny buildings and Victoria Harbor to the green hills of the New Territories. Don't forget to check out Madame Tussauds Wax Museum, the Peak Tower, and Sky Terrace 428 for more fun. One of the best way to get to the Victoria Peak is hopping on the Peak Tram which has been operating for more than 130 years (open in 1888) as one of the world’s oldest funicular railways. The tram ride is so steep that it feels like the buildings on the way up are leaning at crazy angles ranging from 4 to 27 degrees, giving you a really special visual experience. Peak Tram Then, we'll transfer to the Central to experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. It starts from Connaught Road Central, runs to the Hang Seng Bank Building on Des Voeux Road Central, then passes through the Central Market and continues to climb past Hollywood Road to the prime Mid-levels residential district. Our guide will share you some interesting facts about the local daily life, stores around here and so on. The next stop is to visit the Tai Kwun that is Hong Kong’s cultural heart, enabled by The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC) in partnership with the Hong Kong SAR Government. A vibrant, welcoming space that brings people together, Tai Kwun is committed to inspiring the community through arts, culture and heritage. Located in the heart of the Central, Hong Kong, Tai Kwun brings creative energy into our city by providing the people of Hong Kong with access to a variety of immersive, world-class experiences. After that, we will stroll through the Hollywood Road and experience the local antique market. Most Hollywood Road antique shops are located on its western end, centered around Ladder Street and Upper Lascar Row (Cat Street Market). Farther east are more boutique shops and art galleries—Hollywood Road today is one of the top places to view and buy contemporary Chinese art. It's also a chance to learn about the bargaining culture with the locals. The last stop in the Central is the iconic Man Mo Temple, a historic Taoist temple dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It's located on Hollywood Road in Sheung Wan and consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. It was built by wealthy Chinese merchants between 1847 and 1862. Man Mo Temple was mainly for the worship of Man Cheong (God of Literature) and Mo Tai (God of Martial Arts). The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. 10:00 am Visit landmarks in Hong Kong Firstly, we will take bus to the top 1 must-see attraction in Hong Kong. You’ll enjoy skip-the-line via group channel to experience the quickest and most scenic way to reach up the highest point on Hong Kong Island (552 meters) - Victoria Peak by the legendary Peak Tram. Victoria Peak is the highest point on Hong Kong Island. Standing on the Lion's Point View Pavilion, you can enjoy an amazing 360-degree panoramic view of Hong Kong's skyscrapers. During the day with a good weather, you can see everything from the shiny buildings and Victoria Harbor to the green hills of the New Territories. Don't forget to check out Madame Tussauds Wax Museum, the Peak Tower, and Sky Terrace 428 for more fun. One of the best way to get to the Victoria Peak is hopping on the Peak Tram which has been operating for more than 130 years (open in 1888) as one of the world’s oldest funicular railways. The tram ride is so steep that it feels like the buildings on the way up are leaning at crazy angles ranging from 4 to 27 degrees, giving you a really special visual experience. Peak Tram Then, we'll transfer to the Central to experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. It starts from Connaught Road Central, runs to the Hang Seng Bank Building on Des Voeux Road Central, then passes through the Central Market and continues to climb past Hollywood Road to the prime Mid-levels residential district. Our guide will share you some interesting facts about the local daily life, stores around here and so on. The next stop is to visit the Tai Kwun that is Hong Kong’s cultural heart, enabled by The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC) in partnership with the Hong Kong SAR Government. A vibrant, welcoming space that brings people together, Tai Kwun is committed to inspiring the community through arts, culture and heritage. Located in the heart of the Central, Hong Kong, Tai Kwun brings creative energy into our city by providing the people of Hong Kong with access to a variety of immersive, world-class experiences. After that, we will stroll through the Hollywood Road and experience the local antique market. Most Hollywood Road antique shops are located on its western end, centered around Ladder Street and Upper Lascar Row (Cat Street Market). Farther east are more boutique shops and art galleries—Hollywood Road today is one of the top places to view and buy contemporary Chinese art. It's also a chance to learn about the bargaining culture with the locals. The last stop in the Central is the iconic Man Mo Temple, a historic Taoist temple dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It's located on Hollywood Road in Sheung Wan and consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. It was built by wealthy Chinese merchants between 1847 and 1862. Man Mo Temple was mainly for the worship of Man Cheong (God of Literature) and Mo Tai (God of Martial Arts). The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. Firstly, we will take bus to the top 1 must-see attraction in Hong Kong. You’ll enjoy skip-the-line via group channel to experience the quickest and most scenic way to reach up the highest point on Hong Kong Island (552 meters) - Victoria Peak by the legendary Peak Tram. Victoria Peak is the highest point on Hong Kong Island. Standing on the Lion's Point View Pavilion, you can enjoy an amazing 360-degree panoramic view of Hong Kong's skyscrapers. During the day with a good weather, you can see everything from the shiny buildings and Victoria Harbor to the green hills of the New Territories. Don't forget to check out Madame Tussauds Wax Museum, the Peak Tower, and Sky Terrace 428 for more fun. One of the best way to get to the Victoria Peak is hopping on the Peak Tram which has been operating for more than 130 years (open in 1888) as one of the world’s oldest funicular railways. The tram ride is so steep that it feels like the buildings on the way up are leaning at crazy angles ranging from 4 to 27 degrees, giving you a really special visual experience. Then, we'll transfer to the Central to experience the 800-metre hillside Mid-levels Escalator which is the longest covered outdoor escalator system in the world. It starts from Connaught Road Central, runs to the Hang Seng Bank Building on Des Voeux Road Central, then passes through the Central Market and continues to climb past Hollywood Road to the prime Mid-levels residential district. Our guide will share you some interesting facts about the local daily life, stores around here and so on. The next stop is to visit the Tai Kwun that is Hong Kong’s cultural heart, enabled by The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC) in partnership with the Hong Kong SAR Government. A vibrant, welcoming space that brings people together, Tai Kwun is committed to inspiring the community through arts, culture and heritage. Located in the heart of the Central, Hong Kong, Tai Kwun brings creative energy into our city by providing the people of Hong Kong with access to a variety of immersive, world-class experiences. After that, we will stroll through the Hollywood Road and experience the local antique market. Most Hollywood Road antique shops are located on its western end, centered around Ladder Street and Upper Lascar Row (Cat Street Market). Farther east are more boutique shops and art galleries—Hollywood Road today is one of the top places to view and buy contemporary Chinese art. It's also a chance to learn about the bargaining culture with the locals. The last stop in the Central is the iconic Man Mo Temple, a historic Taoist temple dedicated to the gods of literature and war. It's located on Hollywood Road in Sheung Wan and consists of three buildings, namely Man Mo Temple, Lit Shing Temple and Gongsuo. It was built by wealthy Chinese merchants between 1847 and 1862. Man Mo Temple was mainly for the worship of Man Cheong (God of Literature) and Mo Tai (God of Martial Arts). The temple has important historical and social value to Hong Kong, representing the traditional social organization and religious customs of the Chinese community in old Hong Kong. 2:00 pm Enjoy Michelin Dim Sum We will enjoy 10 kinds of delicious dim sum from Tim Ho Wan (2010-2021 Michelin Star awarded), such as Shrimp Dumplings, Siu Mai, and Steamed BBQ Pork Bun, etc. Dim Sum is a must-try Cantonese dish in Hong Kong. With over 1,000 lovely pastries and desserts, handcrafted with fresh and healthy ingredients, breakfast becomes exquisite and heartwarming. 2:00 pm Enjoy Michelin Dim Sum We will enjoy 10 kinds of delicious dim sum from Tim Ho Wan (2010-2021 Michelin Star awarded), such as Shrimp Dumplings, Siu Mai, and Steamed BBQ Pork Bun, etc. Dim Sum is a must-try Cantonese dish in Hong Kong. With over 1,000 lovely pastries and desserts, handcrafted with fresh and healthy ingredients, breakfast becomes exquisite and heartwarming. We will enjoy 10 kinds of delicious dim sum from Tim Ho Wan (2010-2021 Michelin Star awarded), such as Shrimp Dumplings, Siu Mai, and Steamed BBQ Pork Bun, etc. Dim Sum is a must-try Cantonese dish in Hong Kong. With over 1,000 lovely pastries and desserts, handcrafted with fresh and healthy ingredients, breakfast becomes exquisite and heartwarming. 3:00 pm Tour ends Finally, our tour will end at Avenue of Stars, a tribute to Hong Kong's former film industry glory with the 2.5-meter tall bronze statue of the legendary Bruce Lee. While at the Avenue of Stars, catch the Symphony of Lights show starting at 8:00 PM, the world's biggest permanent laser light show beaming from 42 skyscrapers. Suggested itineraries after our tour: You can get the magnificant skyline view of Hong Kong in the sky100 Hong Kong Observation Deck. Or go shopping in K11 Art Mall which is one of the most prosperous shopping mall in Hong Kong. You can enjoy your dinner around the Avenue of Star where you can find various restaurants like local Cantonese cuisines, Michelin starred culinary surprises, various authentic exotic delicacies, etc. You can experience the Star Ferry back to the Central to get a lively nightlife. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Finally, our tour will end at Avenue of Stars, a tribute to Hong Kong's former film industry glory with the 2.5-meter tall bronze statue of the legendary Bruce Lee. While at the Avenue of Stars, catch the Symphony of Lights show starting at 8:00 PM, the world's biggest permanent laser light show beaming from 42 skyscrapers. Suggested itineraries after our tour: You can get the magnificant skyline view of Hong Kong in the sky100 Hong Kong Observation Deck. Or go shopping in K11 Art Mall which is one of the most prosperous shopping mall in Hong Kong. You can enjoy your dinner around the Avenue of Star where you can find various restaurants like local Cantonese cuisines, Michelin starred culinary surprises, various authentic exotic delicacies, etc. You can experience the Star Ferry back to the Central to get a lively nightlife. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Finally, our tour will end at Avenue of Stars, a tribute to Hong Kong's former film industry glory with the 2.5-meter tall bronze statue of the legendary Bruce Lee. While at the Avenue of Stars, catch the Symphony of Lights show starting at 8:00 PM, the world's biggest permanent laser light show beaming from 42 skyscrapers. Suggested itineraries after our tour: • You can get the magnificant skyline view of Hong Kong in the sky100 Hong Kong Observation Deck. Or go shopping in K11 Art Mall which is one of the most prosperous shopping mall in Hong Kong. • You can enjoy your dinner around the Avenue of Star where you can find various restaurants like local Cantonese cuisines, Michelin starred culinary surprises, various authentic exotic delicacies, etc. • You can experience the Star Ferry back to the Central to get a lively nightlife. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Know Before You Book Departure date & time: Departure Date Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Departure Time N/A 1:30pm 9:00am 1:30pm 9:00am 1:30pm 9:00am Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Tidy and air-conditioned vehicle. Round-way peak tram tickets. Admission tickets for all listed attractions. A meal of Michelin Dim Sum. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. Departure date & time: Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Tidy and air-conditioned vehicle. Round-way peak tram tickets. Admission tickets for all listed attractions. A meal of Michelin Dim Sum. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Tidy and air-conditioned vehicle. Round-way peak tram tickets. Admission tickets for all listed attractions. A meal of Michelin Dim Sum. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. • Professional English-speaking local guide. • Tidy and air-conditioned vehicle. • Round-way peak tram tickets. • Admission tickets for all listed attractions. • A meal of Michelin Dim Sum. • Hotel pickup and drop-off. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 123 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 123 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 123 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20