ID: 738cf2903a444679
Title: Private transfer between Chengdu Airport/Train Station & hotel
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chengdu/chengdu-airport-transfers.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Escape the rip-off by unlicensed black cabs at the airport due to language barrier. And you may not waste your precious time on the long queues for shuttle buses. We specialize in transfers from/to Chengdu airport to/from train stations, Chengdu hotels or Chengdu addresses. Meet and greet service is available on arrival. Your personal experienced and friendly driver will meet you at the arrival hall displaying the passenger name on a name board. Clean and comfortable vehicle, door-to-door service, you are in safe hands with Trippest Transfer. Transfer Types Service Details (Take Airport - Hotel Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information We will send you the driver's information by email and SMS message one day before. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970. Or add our WeChat (ID: trippest666) for more help. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver The driver will monitor all flight arrival times on the official airport and airline company websites. There is no extra charge for delayed flights. When on arrival and collect your luggage, you will see the driver await you with holding your name sign and Trippest logo at the exit of luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver, don't worry, try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk, staffs there speak English and are always ready to help, ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency contact shown in your confirmation letter or contact us via WeChat and ask for help. After meeting and greeting, the driver will double check with your hotel information. Show the driver your hotel Chinese information if possible. Then you will be escorted to the car. Relax and enjoy the 1-hour transfer service from airport to your hotel. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Confortable and clean car Spacious enough for you luggage Service Price (USD/Per way/Per person) Transfer Types 1 Pax 2 Pax 3 Pax 4-5 Pax 6-7 Pax 8 Pax 9 Pax 10 Pax Airport – Hotel in Chengdu $35 $17 $15 $12 $10 $9 $8 $7 Train Station – Hotel in Chengdu $35 $17 $15 $12 $10 $9 $8 $7 Free Waiting Time (Counting from the actual arrival time): Airport pickup: 2 hours after flight arrives; Train station pickup: 30 min after train arrives; Hotel pickup for departure: up to 20 min at the appointed time. Overtime waiting fee: US$5 (30 yuan) PER half an hour. Please pay in cash to the driver. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Additional Info The driver will hold a sign of Trippest with your name on it and wait at the exit of arrival hall. Chengdu airport has free WIFI, please be sure to contact us via email or telephone or WeChat if you cannot see the driver or you encounter a long queue at China Customs. Our emergency contact: Mobile: +86-18807734970, WeChat ID: trippest666. Any changes of your flight or train, please inform us at least 2 hours before arrival. We will dispatch the driver to pick you up according to the new time schedule. Inform later than that, customer will be regarded as cancel this service voluntarily. If you stay in airbnb, we might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Please double check the information of your flight, train and hotel before booking. The driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of wrong information. There will be additional costs for the second service required. Fleet Arrangements Vehicle should be obeyed the criteria of similar or upgrading vehicle arrangements. Vehicle's brand is not optional. Please state the total number of passengers, including any children and babies. All our vehicles are licensed and insured to carry only a certain number of passengers. The maximum number of passengers depends on the type of the vehicle. Please double check the detailed description of the vehicles to make sure you have a suitable vehicle for the transfer. You also can contact us for help if there is any question. Terms of Service No diversion on the way. Stopover or change route is not acceptable. Pickup and drop-off service are available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your desired destination is outside the 3rd ring road, there would be extra charge, you will be advised by your travel advisor. FAQs About This Tour What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are several exits. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point of arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10 pm and 7 am. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. Check Availability For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 20 p/p Transfer Type Train Station to Hotel Chengdu Shuangliu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Train Station Hotel to Chengdu Shuangliu Airport Chengdu Tianfu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Chengdu Tianfu Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Escape the rip-off by unlicensed black cabs at the airport due to language barrier. And you may not waste your precious time on the long queues for shuttle buses. We specialize in transfers from/to Chengdu airport to/from train stations, Chengdu hotels or Chengdu addresses. Meet and greet service is available on arrival. Your personal experienced and friendly driver will meet you at the arrival hall displaying the passenger name on a name board. Clean and comfortable vehicle, door-to-door service, you are in safe hands with Trippest Transfer. Escape the rip-off by unlicensed black cabs at the airport due to language barrier. And you may not waste your precious time on the long queues for shuttle buses. We specialize in transfers from/to Chengdu airport to/from train stations, Chengdu hotels or Chengdu addresses. Meet and greet service is available on arrival. Your personal experienced and friendly driver will meet you at the arrival hall displaying the passenger name on a name board. Clean and comfortable vehicle, door-to-door service, you are in safe hands with Trippest Transfer. Service Details (Take Airport - Hotel Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information We will send you the driver's information by email and SMS message one day before. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970. Or add our WeChat (ID: trippest666) for more help. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver The driver will monitor all flight arrival times on the official airport and airline company websites. There is no extra charge for delayed flights. When on arrival and collect your luggage, you will see the driver await you with holding your name sign and Trippest logo at the exit of luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver, don't worry, try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk, staffs there speak English and are always ready to help, ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency contact shown in your confirmation letter or contact us via WeChat and ask for help. After meeting and greeting, the driver will double check with your hotel information. Show the driver your hotel Chinese information if possible. Then you will be escorted to the car. Relax and enjoy the 1-hour transfer service from airport to your hotel. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Confortable and clean car Spacious enough for you luggage Service Details (Take Airport - Hotel Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information We will send you the driver's information by email and SMS message one day before. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970. Or add our WeChat (ID: trippest666) for more help. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver The driver will monitor all flight arrival times on the official airport and airline company websites. There is no extra charge for delayed flights. When on arrival and collect your luggage, you will see the driver await you with holding your name sign and Trippest logo at the exit of luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver, don't worry, try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk, staffs there speak English and are always ready to help, ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency contact shown in your confirmation letter or contact us via WeChat and ask for help. After meeting and greeting, the driver will double check with your hotel information. Show the driver your hotel Chinese information if possible. Then you will be escorted to the car. Relax and enjoy the 1-hour transfer service from airport to your hotel. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Confortable and clean car Spacious enough for you luggage Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information We will send you the driver's information by email and SMS message one day before. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970. Or add our WeChat (ID: trippest666) for more help. Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information We will send you the driver's information by email and SMS message one day before. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970. Or add our WeChat (ID: trippest666) for more help. We will send you the driver's information by email and SMS message one day before. If you don't receive that information, please call our 24-hour customer service at +86 18807734970. Or add our WeChat (ID: trippest666) for more help. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver The driver will monitor all flight arrival times on the official airport and airline company websites. There is no extra charge for delayed flights. When on arrival and collect your luggage, you will see the driver await you with holding your name sign and Trippest logo at the exit of luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver, don't worry, try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk, staffs there speak English and are always ready to help, ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency contact shown in your confirmation letter or contact us via WeChat and ask for help. After meeting and greeting, the driver will double check with your hotel information. Show the driver your hotel Chinese information if possible. Then you will be escorted to the car. Relax and enjoy the 1-hour transfer service from airport to your hotel. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Confortable and clean car Spacious enough for you luggage On ArrivalMeet Your Driver The driver will monitor all flight arrival times on the official airport and airline company websites. There is no extra charge for delayed flights. When on arrival and collect your luggage, you will see the driver await you with holding your name sign and Trippest logo at the exit of luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver, don't worry, try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk, staffs there speak English and are always ready to help, ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency contact shown in your confirmation letter or contact us via WeChat and ask for help. After meeting and greeting, the driver will double check with your hotel information. Show the driver your hotel Chinese information if possible. Then you will be escorted to the car. Relax and enjoy the 1-hour transfer service from airport to your hotel. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Confortable and clean car Spacious enough for you luggage The driver will monitor all flight arrival times on the official airport and airline company websites. There is no extra charge for delayed flights. When on arrival and collect your luggage, you will see the driver await you with holding your name sign and Trippest logo at the exit of luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver, don't worry, try the following procedure to get in touch with us: • Go to the information desk, staffs there speak English and are always ready to help, ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. • Call our 24/7 emergency contact shown in your confirmation letter or contact us via WeChat and ask for help. • After meeting and greeting, the driver will double check with your hotel information. Show the driver your hotel Chinese information if possible. Then you will be escorted to the car. Relax and enjoy the 1-hour transfer service from airport to your hotel. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Confortable and clean car Spacious enough for you luggage Service Price (USD/Per way/Per person) Transfer Types 1 Pax 2 Pax 3 Pax 4-5 Pax 6-7 Pax 8 Pax 9 Pax 10 Pax Airport – Hotel in Chengdu $35 $17 $15 $12 $10 $9 $8 $7 Train Station – Hotel in Chengdu $35 $17 $15 $12 $10 $9 $8 $7 Free Waiting Time (Counting from the actual arrival time): Airport pickup: 2 hours after flight arrives; Train station pickup: 30 min after train arrives; Hotel pickup for departure: up to 20 min at the appointed time. Overtime waiting fee: US$5 (30 yuan) PER half an hour. Please pay in cash to the driver. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Additional Info The driver will hold a sign of Trippest with your name on it and wait at the exit of arrival hall. Chengdu airport has free WIFI, please be sure to contact us via email or telephone or WeChat if you cannot see the driver or you encounter a long queue at China Customs. Our emergency contact: Mobile: +86-18807734970, WeChat ID: trippest666. Any changes of your flight or train, please inform us at least 2 hours before arrival. We will dispatch the driver to pick you up according to the new time schedule. Inform later than that, customer will be regarded as cancel this service voluntarily. If you stay in airbnb, we might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Please double check the information of your flight, train and hotel before booking. The driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of wrong information. There will be additional costs for the second service required. Fleet Arrangements Vehicle should be obeyed the criteria of similar or upgrading vehicle arrangements. Vehicle's brand is not optional. Please state the total number of passengers, including any children and babies. All our vehicles are licensed and insured to carry only a certain number of passengers. The maximum number of passengers depends on the type of the vehicle. Please double check the detailed description of the vehicles to make sure you have a suitable vehicle for the transfer. You also can contact us for help if there is any question. Terms of Service No diversion on the way. Stopover or change route is not acceptable. Pickup and drop-off service are available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your desired destination is outside the 3rd ring road, there would be extra charge, you will be advised by your travel advisor. Service Price (USD/Per way/Per person) Transfer Types 1 Pax 2 Pax 3 Pax 4-5 Pax 6-7 Pax 8 Pax 9 Pax 10 Pax Airport – Hotel in Chengdu $35 $17 $15 $12 $10 $9 $8 $7 Train Station – Hotel in Chengdu $35 $17 $15 $12 $10 $9 $8 $7 Free Waiting Time (Counting from the actual arrival time): Airport pickup: 2 hours after flight arrives; Train station pickup: 30 min after train arrives; Hotel pickup for departure: up to 20 min at the appointed time. Overtime waiting fee: US$5 (30 yuan) PER half an hour. Please pay in cash to the driver. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Additional Info The driver will hold a sign of Trippest with your name on it and wait at the exit of arrival hall. Chengdu airport has free WIFI, please be sure to contact us via email or telephone or WeChat if you cannot see the driver or you encounter a long queue at China Customs. Our emergency contact: Mobile: +86-18807734970, WeChat ID: trippest666. Any changes of your flight or train, please inform us at least 2 hours before arrival. We will dispatch the driver to pick you up according to the new time schedule. Inform later than that, customer will be regarded as cancel this service voluntarily. If you stay in airbnb, we might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Please double check the information of your flight, train and hotel before booking. The driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of wrong information. There will be additional costs for the second service required. Fleet Arrangements Vehicle should be obeyed the criteria of similar or upgrading vehicle arrangements. Vehicle's brand is not optional. Please state the total number of passengers, including any children and babies. All our vehicles are licensed and insured to carry only a certain number of passengers. The maximum number of passengers depends on the type of the vehicle. Please double check the detailed description of the vehicles to make sure you have a suitable vehicle for the transfer. You also can contact us for help if there is any question. Terms of Service No diversion on the way. Stopover or change route is not acceptable. Pickup and drop-off service are available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your desired destination is outside the 3rd ring road, there would be extra charge, you will be advised by your travel advisor. Free Waiting Time (Counting from the actual arrival time): • Airport pickup: 2 hours after flight arrives; • Train station pickup: 30 min after train arrives; • Hotel pickup for departure: up to 20 min at the appointed time. • Overtime waiting fee: US$5 (30 yuan) PER half an hour. Please pay in cash to the driver. • If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. • The driver will hold a sign of Trippest with your name on it and wait at the exit of arrival hall. • Chengdu airport has free WIFI, please be sure to contact us via email or telephone or WeChat if you cannot see the driver or you encounter a long queue at China Customs. Our emergency contact: Mobile: +86-18807734970, WeChat ID: trippest666. • Any changes of your flight or train, please inform us at least 2 hours before arrival. We will dispatch the driver to pick you up according to the new time schedule. Inform later than that, customer will be regarded as cancel this service voluntarily. • If you stay in airbnb, we might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. • Please double check the information of your flight, train and hotel before booking. The driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of wrong information. There will be additional costs for the second service required. • Vehicle should be obeyed the criteria of similar or upgrading vehicle arrangements. Vehicle's brand is not optional. • Please state the total number of passengers, including any children and babies. All our vehicles are licensed and insured to carry only a certain number of passengers. The maximum number of passengers depends on the type of the vehicle. • Please double check the detailed description of the vehicles to make sure you have a suitable vehicle for the transfer. You also can contact us for help if there is any question. • No diversion on the way. Stopover or change route is not acceptable. • Pickup and drop-off service are available within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. If your desired destination is outside the 3rd ring road, there would be extra charge, you will be advised by your travel advisor. FAQs About This Tour What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are several exits. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point of arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10 pm and 7 am. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are several exits. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are several exits. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are several exits. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transferring to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point of arrival. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point of arrival. You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is, you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point of arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10 pm and 7 am. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10 pm and 7 am. We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10 pm and 7 am. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City The hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd ring road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 20 p/p Transfer Type Train Station to Hotel Chengdu Shuangliu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Train Station Hotel to Chengdu Shuangliu Airport Chengdu Tianfu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Chengdu Tianfu Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 20 p/p Transfer Type Train Station to Hotel Chengdu Shuangliu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Train Station Hotel to Chengdu Shuangliu Airport Chengdu Tianfu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Chengdu Tianfu Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 20 p/p Transfer Type Train Station to Hotel Chengdu Shuangliu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Train Station Hotel to Chengdu Shuangliu Airport Chengdu Tianfu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Chengdu Tianfu Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type Train Station to Hotel Chengdu Shuangliu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Train Station Hotel to Chengdu Shuangliu Airport Chengdu Tianfu Airport to Hotel Hotel to Chengdu Tianfu Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20