ID: ae39e8db0062a52
Title: Half-Day Xi'an Terracotta Warriors Discovery Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/xian/half-day-xian-terracotta-warriors-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Visit the biggest ancient burial site in existence, and uncover the amazing stories behind the Terracotta figures. Equipped with specific "weapons" to see the Terracotta Army in an efficient way. Taste the local people's favorite food at a local restaurant. Benefit from smartly-timed arrangements and no visit to tourist shops. As the top ranking on TripAdvisor and the most famous site of Xi'an, half-day excursion is more suitable for the short stay visitors. Tour Highlights Skip the line at the entrance of Terracotta Warriors Museum. Use a telescope to get a closer view of the terracotta warriors. Use an FM headset to keep out external noise disturbances. Taste the local people's favorite daily food at a local featured restaurant. Smartly-timed arrangements with absolutely no shop detours. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: daily sanitization, air-conditioned, with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All 7:30am – 8amCollection from Your Hotel Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby at the appointed time holding a placard with China Highlights' logo and your name on it. Note: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Just in case you miss your tour guide, please ask the hotel's front desk to help you make a phone call to your tour guide or to contact China Highlights' Xi'an office using the 24/7 emergency hotline at 18807734970. Why Leave So Early? Most tour groups and crowds usually arrive late in the morning. We try to avoid wasting time spent queuing to get tickets and at the general admission line during the peak time. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby 8am – 9amDrive to the Terracotta Warrior Museum Normally, it takes about 50 minutes to drive from downtown Xi'an to the Terracotta Warrior Museum, a distance of about 45 kilometers. A distance map of major attractions in Xi'an You will acquire rich background information about the city from your well-educated, expert guide on the way. Do something to make your trip more fun: We recommend you watch the following video on YouTube about the history of the Terracotta Army and Emperor Qin Shi Huang: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mP5p4QbvPtc (this brief video is about 5 minutes long). Alternatively, you can watch this video for a more detailed introduction: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-1IcaeuGnw (it takes about 45 minutes). Questions to your guide are highly recommended. Instead of being just a trip, this makes for an interesting interaction. 9am – 12pmVisit the Terracotta Warriors and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang After going through three tickets gates, you will see this wonder of the ancient world with your own eyes. Three pits have been excavated and can be visited. The largest pit, Pit 1, is believed to contain 6,000 warriors (only 2,000 are on display) and horses. They are all life-sized, facing east, and are lined up in battle formation. What is particularly striking is the fact that no two of them are alike. Pit 2, which is smaller than Pit 1, contains around 1,300 warriors and horses, and it is still being excavated. It is worth mentioning that the figurines of general, the soldier on the horse, and the kneeling soldier were the first to be discovered in this pit. The smallest pit, Pit 3, contains 72 warriors and horses, and is believed to be the army headquarters due to the number of high-ranking officers unearthed there. The Bronze Chariot Pit exhibits two painted bronze chariots in a large scale in a small museum to the right of the main entrance. In ancient times, only the emperor, queen, and prince had the right to ride in this vehicle. The bronze chariots are the earliest, largest, and best-preserved bronze artifacts in the world, crowned as "the King of Bronze Ware". The last site you will visit is the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. According to historical records, the palace is filled with precious stones, and underground rivers of flowing mercury defend against intruders. Considered too dangerous to excavate, 95% of the mausoleum is still buried and its contents remain secret. The tomb has little to see, so we will visit the site by viewing at a distance instead of taking a close look at. You'll be transferred from the museum to the best ViewPoint where you can view the whole area of the Maosoleunm of Qin Shi Huang. You'll be shocked by the large size of the mausoleum. Your tour guide will tell the story why the Qin Shi Huang choose this site to expect to continue his rule in death as it had in life, and some inference about the structure and distribution of the underground palace. A quick facts of Emperor Qin Shi Huang (259–210 BC) Pit 1 The figures in Pit 1 Conservation and Restoration Open Workshop in Pit 1 How the Terracotta Warriors Were Made The bronze chariot View the whole area of the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang at a distance Try to find the answers for some interesting questions while visiting the Terracotta museum Good to Know: Photography is not allowed in Pit 1 or in the Bronze Chariots and Horses Pit. However you can take photos in the north exhibition. Your entrance ticket will be checked twice in the museum, at the pits containing the Terracotta Warriors and in the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. Please take care of your ticket. It is very crowded and noisy during the peak season. In order to make sure you can hear what your guide is saying, we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly and do not miss any interesting stories. All three pits are protected from tourists by a certain distance restriction. The 8,000 statues of terracotta soldiers are all individual and it is impossible to find two of them that look exactly alike. Some look happy with slightly raised cheeks while some look sad with frowning eyebrows. However, as they are all protected from tourists by a distance of 20 meters, how will you see the details? As a privilege for our customers, you will be equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you. we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly Equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you China Highlights / Trippest Clients at Terracotta Warriors Museum 12pm – 1:30pmHave Lunch at a Local Restaurant (Not Included) In order to help our customers experience the most authentic Xi'an local food, we have selected a featured local restaurant near the Terracotta Warriors Museum. Lunch fee is not included. There, you'll have the chance to taste the local people's favorite food, such as Rou Jia Mo (肉夹馍, we also call it a Chinese hamburger), Yang Rou Pao Mo (羊肉泡馍, pita bread soaked in lamb soup; your guide will show you how to break the bread into small pieces), noodles, and dumplings. Please let us know your food preferences, such as a vegetarian diet, Muslim food, gluten-free food, etc. so that we can make preparations in advance. Yang Rou Pao Mo Yang Rou Pao Mo 1:30pm – 2:30pmDrive Back to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, please book the transfer service with us in advance. Good to Know: If you plan to leave Xian after your tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle. You will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour if you book the private transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) with us, to make best use of your time. It normally takes about 1 hour to transfer from the city center to airport. You will need to be at the airport at least 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. Know Before You Book Important Notes: Price Includes: Admission to Terracotta Warrior Museum. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an). English-speaking professional local guide. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Airport transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) Important Notes: Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. Check Availability For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 129 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Visit the biggest ancient burial site in existence, and uncover the amazing stories behind the Terracotta figures. Equipped with specific "weapons" to see the Terracotta Army in an efficient way. Taste the local people's favorite food at a local restaurant. Benefit from smartly-timed arrangements and no visit to tourist shops. As the top ranking on TripAdvisor and the most famous site of Xi'an, half-day excursion is more suitable for the short stay visitors. Visit the biggest ancient burial site in existence, and uncover the amazing stories behind the Terracotta figures. Equipped with specific "weapons" to see the Terracotta Army in an efficient way. Taste the local people's favorite food at a local restaurant. Benefit from smartly-timed arrangements and no visit to tourist shops. As the top ranking on TripAdvisor and the most famous site of Xi'an, half-day excursion is more suitable for the short stay visitors. Tour Highlights Skip the line at the entrance of Terracotta Warriors Museum. Use a telescope to get a closer view of the terracotta warriors. Use an FM headset to keep out external noise disturbances. Taste the local people's favorite daily food at a local featured restaurant. Smartly-timed arrangements with absolutely no shop detours. • Skip the line at the entrance of Terracotta Warriors Museum. • Use a telescope to get a closer view of the terracotta warriors. • Use an FM headset to keep out external noise disturbances. • Taste the local people's favorite daily food at a local featured restaurant. • Smartly-timed arrangements with absolutely no shop detours. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: daily sanitization, air-conditioned, with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. The Design of the Day Trip • Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English • Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience • Vehicle: daily sanitization, air-conditioned, with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space • Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice • Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All 7:30am – 8amCollection from Your Hotel Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby at the appointed time holding a placard with China Highlights' logo and your name on it. Note: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Just in case you miss your tour guide, please ask the hotel's front desk to help you make a phone call to your tour guide or to contact China Highlights' Xi'an office using the 24/7 emergency hotline at 18807734970. Why Leave So Early? Most tour groups and crowds usually arrive late in the morning. We try to avoid wasting time spent queuing to get tickets and at the general admission line during the peak time. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby 8am – 9amDrive to the Terracotta Warrior Museum Normally, it takes about 50 minutes to drive from downtown Xi'an to the Terracotta Warrior Museum, a distance of about 45 kilometers. A distance map of major attractions in Xi'an You will acquire rich background information about the city from your well-educated, expert guide on the way. Do something to make your trip more fun: We recommend you watch the following video on YouTube about the history of the Terracotta Army and Emperor Qin Shi Huang: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mP5p4QbvPtc (this brief video is about 5 minutes long). Alternatively, you can watch this video for a more detailed introduction: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-1IcaeuGnw (it takes about 45 minutes). Questions to your guide are highly recommended. Instead of being just a trip, this makes for an interesting interaction. 9am – 12pmVisit the Terracotta Warriors and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang After going through three tickets gates, you will see this wonder of the ancient world with your own eyes. Three pits have been excavated and can be visited. The largest pit, Pit 1, is believed to contain 6,000 warriors (only 2,000 are on display) and horses. They are all life-sized, facing east, and are lined up in battle formation. What is particularly striking is the fact that no two of them are alike. Pit 2, which is smaller than Pit 1, contains around 1,300 warriors and horses, and it is still being excavated. It is worth mentioning that the figurines of general, the soldier on the horse, and the kneeling soldier were the first to be discovered in this pit. The smallest pit, Pit 3, contains 72 warriors and horses, and is believed to be the army headquarters due to the number of high-ranking officers unearthed there. The Bronze Chariot Pit exhibits two painted bronze chariots in a large scale in a small museum to the right of the main entrance. In ancient times, only the emperor, queen, and prince had the right to ride in this vehicle. The bronze chariots are the earliest, largest, and best-preserved bronze artifacts in the world, crowned as "the King of Bronze Ware". The last site you will visit is the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. According to historical records, the palace is filled with precious stones, and underground rivers of flowing mercury defend against intruders. Considered too dangerous to excavate, 95% of the mausoleum is still buried and its contents remain secret. The tomb has little to see, so we will visit the site by viewing at a distance instead of taking a close look at. You'll be transferred from the museum to the best ViewPoint where you can view the whole area of the Maosoleunm of Qin Shi Huang. You'll be shocked by the large size of the mausoleum. Your tour guide will tell the story why the Qin Shi Huang choose this site to expect to continue his rule in death as it had in life, and some inference about the structure and distribution of the underground palace. A quick facts of Emperor Qin Shi Huang (259–210 BC) Pit 1 The figures in Pit 1 Conservation and Restoration Open Workshop in Pit 1 How the Terracotta Warriors Were Made The bronze chariot View the whole area of the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang at a distance Try to find the answers for some interesting questions while visiting the Terracotta museum Good to Know: Photography is not allowed in Pit 1 or in the Bronze Chariots and Horses Pit. However you can take photos in the north exhibition. Your entrance ticket will be checked twice in the museum, at the pits containing the Terracotta Warriors and in the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. Please take care of your ticket. It is very crowded and noisy during the peak season. In order to make sure you can hear what your guide is saying, we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly and do not miss any interesting stories. All three pits are protected from tourists by a certain distance restriction. The 8,000 statues of terracotta soldiers are all individual and it is impossible to find two of them that look exactly alike. Some look happy with slightly raised cheeks while some look sad with frowning eyebrows. However, as they are all protected from tourists by a distance of 20 meters, how will you see the details? As a privilege for our customers, you will be equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you. we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly Equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you China Highlights / Trippest Clients at Terracotta Warriors Museum 12pm – 1:30pmHave Lunch at a Local Restaurant (Not Included) In order to help our customers experience the most authentic Xi'an local food, we have selected a featured local restaurant near the Terracotta Warriors Museum. Lunch fee is not included. There, you'll have the chance to taste the local people's favorite food, such as Rou Jia Mo (肉夹馍, we also call it a Chinese hamburger), Yang Rou Pao Mo (羊肉泡馍, pita bread soaked in lamb soup; your guide will show you how to break the bread into small pieces), noodles, and dumplings. Please let us know your food preferences, such as a vegetarian diet, Muslim food, gluten-free food, etc. so that we can make preparations in advance. Yang Rou Pao Mo Yang Rou Pao Mo 1:30pm – 2:30pmDrive Back to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, please book the transfer service with us in advance. Good to Know: If you plan to leave Xian after your tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle. You will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour if you book the private transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) with us, to make best use of your time. It normally takes about 1 hour to transfer from the city center to airport. You will need to be at the airport at least 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. Close All 7:30am – 8amCollection from Your Hotel Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby at the appointed time holding a placard with China Highlights' logo and your name on it. Note: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Just in case you miss your tour guide, please ask the hotel's front desk to help you make a phone call to your tour guide or to contact China Highlights' Xi'an office using the 24/7 emergency hotline at 18807734970. Why Leave So Early? Most tour groups and crowds usually arrive late in the morning. We try to avoid wasting time spent queuing to get tickets and at the general admission line during the peak time. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby 8am – 9amDrive to the Terracotta Warrior Museum Normally, it takes about 50 minutes to drive from downtown Xi'an to the Terracotta Warrior Museum, a distance of about 45 kilometers. A distance map of major attractions in Xi'an You will acquire rich background information about the city from your well-educated, expert guide on the way. Do something to make your trip more fun: We recommend you watch the following video on YouTube about the history of the Terracotta Army and Emperor Qin Shi Huang: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mP5p4QbvPtc (this brief video is about 5 minutes long). Alternatively, you can watch this video for a more detailed introduction: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-1IcaeuGnw (it takes about 45 minutes). Questions to your guide are highly recommended. Instead of being just a trip, this makes for an interesting interaction. 9am – 12pmVisit the Terracotta Warriors and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang After going through three tickets gates, you will see this wonder of the ancient world with your own eyes. Three pits have been excavated and can be visited. The largest pit, Pit 1, is believed to contain 6,000 warriors (only 2,000 are on display) and horses. They are all life-sized, facing east, and are lined up in battle formation. What is particularly striking is the fact that no two of them are alike. Pit 2, which is smaller than Pit 1, contains around 1,300 warriors and horses, and it is still being excavated. It is worth mentioning that the figurines of general, the soldier on the horse, and the kneeling soldier were the first to be discovered in this pit. The smallest pit, Pit 3, contains 72 warriors and horses, and is believed to be the army headquarters due to the number of high-ranking officers unearthed there. The Bronze Chariot Pit exhibits two painted bronze chariots in a large scale in a small museum to the right of the main entrance. In ancient times, only the emperor, queen, and prince had the right to ride in this vehicle. The bronze chariots are the earliest, largest, and best-preserved bronze artifacts in the world, crowned as "the King of Bronze Ware". The last site you will visit is the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. According to historical records, the palace is filled with precious stones, and underground rivers of flowing mercury defend against intruders. Considered too dangerous to excavate, 95% of the mausoleum is still buried and its contents remain secret. The tomb has little to see, so we will visit the site by viewing at a distance instead of taking a close look at. You'll be transferred from the museum to the best ViewPoint where you can view the whole area of the Maosoleunm of Qin Shi Huang. You'll be shocked by the large size of the mausoleum. Your tour guide will tell the story why the Qin Shi Huang choose this site to expect to continue his rule in death as it had in life, and some inference about the structure and distribution of the underground palace. A quick facts of Emperor Qin Shi Huang (259–210 BC) Pit 1 The figures in Pit 1 Conservation and Restoration Open Workshop in Pit 1 How the Terracotta Warriors Were Made The bronze chariot View the whole area of the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang at a distance Try to find the answers for some interesting questions while visiting the Terracotta museum Good to Know: Photography is not allowed in Pit 1 or in the Bronze Chariots and Horses Pit. However you can take photos in the north exhibition. Your entrance ticket will be checked twice in the museum, at the pits containing the Terracotta Warriors and in the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. Please take care of your ticket. It is very crowded and noisy during the peak season. In order to make sure you can hear what your guide is saying, we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly and do not miss any interesting stories. All three pits are protected from tourists by a certain distance restriction. The 8,000 statues of terracotta soldiers are all individual and it is impossible to find two of them that look exactly alike. Some look happy with slightly raised cheeks while some look sad with frowning eyebrows. However, as they are all protected from tourists by a distance of 20 meters, how will you see the details? As a privilege for our customers, you will be equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you. we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly Equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you China Highlights / Trippest Clients at Terracotta Warriors Museum 12pm – 1:30pmHave Lunch at a Local Restaurant (Not Included) In order to help our customers experience the most authentic Xi'an local food, we have selected a featured local restaurant near the Terracotta Warriors Museum. Lunch fee is not included. There, you'll have the chance to taste the local people's favorite food, such as Rou Jia Mo (肉夹馍, we also call it a Chinese hamburger), Yang Rou Pao Mo (羊肉泡馍, pita bread soaked in lamb soup; your guide will show you how to break the bread into small pieces), noodles, and dumplings. Please let us know your food preferences, such as a vegetarian diet, Muslim food, gluten-free food, etc. so that we can make preparations in advance. Yang Rou Pao Mo Yang Rou Pao Mo 1:30pm – 2:30pmDrive Back to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, please book the transfer service with us in advance. Good to Know: If you plan to leave Xian after your tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle. You will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour if you book the private transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) with us, to make best use of your time. It normally takes about 1 hour to transfer from the city center to airport. You will need to be at the airport at least 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. 7:30am – 8amCollection from Your Hotel Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby at the appointed time holding a placard with China Highlights' logo and your name on it. Note: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Just in case you miss your tour guide, please ask the hotel's front desk to help you make a phone call to your tour guide or to contact China Highlights' Xi'an office using the 24/7 emergency hotline at 18807734970. Why Leave So Early? Most tour groups and crowds usually arrive late in the morning. We try to avoid wasting time spent queuing to get tickets and at the general admission line during the peak time. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby 7:30am – 8amCollection from Your Hotel Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby at the appointed time holding a placard with China Highlights' logo and your name on it. Note: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Just in case you miss your tour guide, please ask the hotel's front desk to help you make a phone call to your tour guide or to contact China Highlights' Xi'an office using the 24/7 emergency hotline at 18807734970. Why Leave So Early? Most tour groups and crowds usually arrive late in the morning. We try to avoid wasting time spent queuing to get tickets and at the general admission line during the peak time. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby at the appointed time holding a placard with China Highlights' logo and your name on it. Note: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Just in case you miss your tour guide, please ask the hotel's front desk to help you make a phone call to your tour guide or to contact China Highlights' Xi'an office using the 24/7 emergency hotline at 18807734970. • Most tour groups and crowds usually arrive late in the morning. We try to avoid wasting time spent queuing to get tickets and at the general admission line during the peak time. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby 8am – 9amDrive to the Terracotta Warrior Museum Normally, it takes about 50 minutes to drive from downtown Xi'an to the Terracotta Warrior Museum, a distance of about 45 kilometers. A distance map of major attractions in Xi'an You will acquire rich background information about the city from your well-educated, expert guide on the way. Do something to make your trip more fun: We recommend you watch the following video on YouTube about the history of the Terracotta Army and Emperor Qin Shi Huang: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mP5p4QbvPtc (this brief video is about 5 minutes long). Alternatively, you can watch this video for a more detailed introduction: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-1IcaeuGnw (it takes about 45 minutes). Questions to your guide are highly recommended. Instead of being just a trip, this makes for an interesting interaction. 8am – 9amDrive to the Terracotta Warrior Museum Normally, it takes about 50 minutes to drive from downtown Xi'an to the Terracotta Warrior Museum, a distance of about 45 kilometers. A distance map of major attractions in Xi'an You will acquire rich background information about the city from your well-educated, expert guide on the way. Do something to make your trip more fun: We recommend you watch the following video on YouTube about the history of the Terracotta Army and Emperor Qin Shi Huang: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mP5p4QbvPtc (this brief video is about 5 minutes long). Alternatively, you can watch this video for a more detailed introduction: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-1IcaeuGnw (it takes about 45 minutes). Questions to your guide are highly recommended. Instead of being just a trip, this makes for an interesting interaction. Normally, it takes about 50 minutes to drive from downtown Xi'an to the Terracotta Warrior Museum, a distance of about 45 kilometers. A distance map of major attractions in Xi'an You will acquire rich background information about the city from your well-educated, expert guide on the way. Do something to make your trip more fun: • We recommend you watch the following video on YouTube about the history of the Terracotta Army and Emperor Qin Shi Huang: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mP5p4QbvPtc (this brief video is about 5 minutes long). Alternatively, you can watch this video for a more detailed introduction: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-1IcaeuGnw (it takes about 45 minutes). • Questions to your guide are highly recommended. Instead of being just a trip, this makes for an interesting interaction. 9am – 12pmVisit the Terracotta Warriors and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang After going through three tickets gates, you will see this wonder of the ancient world with your own eyes. Three pits have been excavated and can be visited. The largest pit, Pit 1, is believed to contain 6,000 warriors (only 2,000 are on display) and horses. They are all life-sized, facing east, and are lined up in battle formation. What is particularly striking is the fact that no two of them are alike. Pit 2, which is smaller than Pit 1, contains around 1,300 warriors and horses, and it is still being excavated. It is worth mentioning that the figurines of general, the soldier on the horse, and the kneeling soldier were the first to be discovered in this pit. The smallest pit, Pit 3, contains 72 warriors and horses, and is believed to be the army headquarters due to the number of high-ranking officers unearthed there. The Bronze Chariot Pit exhibits two painted bronze chariots in a large scale in a small museum to the right of the main entrance. In ancient times, only the emperor, queen, and prince had the right to ride in this vehicle. The bronze chariots are the earliest, largest, and best-preserved bronze artifacts in the world, crowned as "the King of Bronze Ware". The last site you will visit is the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. According to historical records, the palace is filled with precious stones, and underground rivers of flowing mercury defend against intruders. Considered too dangerous to excavate, 95% of the mausoleum is still buried and its contents remain secret. The tomb has little to see, so we will visit the site by viewing at a distance instead of taking a close look at. You'll be transferred from the museum to the best ViewPoint where you can view the whole area of the Maosoleunm of Qin Shi Huang. You'll be shocked by the large size of the mausoleum. Your tour guide will tell the story why the Qin Shi Huang choose this site to expect to continue his rule in death as it had in life, and some inference about the structure and distribution of the underground palace. A quick facts of Emperor Qin Shi Huang (259–210 BC) Pit 1 The figures in Pit 1 Conservation and Restoration Open Workshop in Pit 1 How the Terracotta Warriors Were Made The bronze chariot View the whole area of the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang at a distance Try to find the answers for some interesting questions while visiting the Terracotta museum Good to Know: Photography is not allowed in Pit 1 or in the Bronze Chariots and Horses Pit. However you can take photos in the north exhibition. Your entrance ticket will be checked twice in the museum, at the pits containing the Terracotta Warriors and in the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. Please take care of your ticket. It is very crowded and noisy during the peak season. In order to make sure you can hear what your guide is saying, we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly and do not miss any interesting stories. All three pits are protected from tourists by a certain distance restriction. The 8,000 statues of terracotta soldiers are all individual and it is impossible to find two of them that look exactly alike. Some look happy with slightly raised cheeks while some look sad with frowning eyebrows. However, as they are all protected from tourists by a distance of 20 meters, how will you see the details? As a privilege for our customers, you will be equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you. we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly Equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you China Highlights / Trippest Clients at Terracotta Warriors Museum 9am – 12pmVisit the Terracotta Warriors and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang After going through three tickets gates, you will see this wonder of the ancient world with your own eyes. Three pits have been excavated and can be visited. The largest pit, Pit 1, is believed to contain 6,000 warriors (only 2,000 are on display) and horses. They are all life-sized, facing east, and are lined up in battle formation. What is particularly striking is the fact that no two of them are alike. Pit 2, which is smaller than Pit 1, contains around 1,300 warriors and horses, and it is still being excavated. It is worth mentioning that the figurines of general, the soldier on the horse, and the kneeling soldier were the first to be discovered in this pit. The smallest pit, Pit 3, contains 72 warriors and horses, and is believed to be the army headquarters due to the number of high-ranking officers unearthed there. The Bronze Chariot Pit exhibits two painted bronze chariots in a large scale in a small museum to the right of the main entrance. In ancient times, only the emperor, queen, and prince had the right to ride in this vehicle. The bronze chariots are the earliest, largest, and best-preserved bronze artifacts in the world, crowned as "the King of Bronze Ware". The last site you will visit is the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. According to historical records, the palace is filled with precious stones, and underground rivers of flowing mercury defend against intruders. Considered too dangerous to excavate, 95% of the mausoleum is still buried and its contents remain secret. The tomb has little to see, so we will visit the site by viewing at a distance instead of taking a close look at. You'll be transferred from the museum to the best ViewPoint where you can view the whole area of the Maosoleunm of Qin Shi Huang. You'll be shocked by the large size of the mausoleum. Your tour guide will tell the story why the Qin Shi Huang choose this site to expect to continue his rule in death as it had in life, and some inference about the structure and distribution of the underground palace. A quick facts of Emperor Qin Shi Huang (259–210 BC) Pit 1 The figures in Pit 1 Conservation and Restoration Open Workshop in Pit 1 How the Terracotta Warriors Were Made The bronze chariot View the whole area of the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang at a distance Try to find the answers for some interesting questions while visiting the Terracotta museum Good to Know: Photography is not allowed in Pit 1 or in the Bronze Chariots and Horses Pit. However you can take photos in the north exhibition. Your entrance ticket will be checked twice in the museum, at the pits containing the Terracotta Warriors and in the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. Please take care of your ticket. It is very crowded and noisy during the peak season. In order to make sure you can hear what your guide is saying, we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly and do not miss any interesting stories. All three pits are protected from tourists by a certain distance restriction. The 8,000 statues of terracotta soldiers are all individual and it is impossible to find two of them that look exactly alike. Some look happy with slightly raised cheeks while some look sad with frowning eyebrows. However, as they are all protected from tourists by a distance of 20 meters, how will you see the details? As a privilege for our customers, you will be equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you. we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly Equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you China Highlights / Trippest Clients at Terracotta Warriors Museum After going through three tickets gates, you will see this wonder of the ancient world with your own eyes. Three pits have been excavated and can be visited. The largest pit, Pit 1, is believed to contain 6,000 warriors (only 2,000 are on display) and horses. They are all life-sized, facing east, and are lined up in battle formation. What is particularly striking is the fact that no two of them are alike. Pit 2, which is smaller than Pit 1, contains around 1,300 warriors and horses, and it is still being excavated. It is worth mentioning that the figurines of general, the soldier on the horse, and the kneeling soldier were the first to be discovered in this pit. The smallest pit, Pit 3, contains 72 warriors and horses, and is believed to be the army headquarters due to the number of high-ranking officers unearthed there. The Bronze Chariot Pit exhibits two painted bronze chariots in a large scale in a small museum to the right of the main entrance. In ancient times, only the emperor, queen, and prince had the right to ride in this vehicle. The bronze chariots are the earliest, largest, and best-preserved bronze artifacts in the world, crowned as "the King of Bronze Ware". The last site you will visit is the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. According to historical records, the palace is filled with precious stones, and underground rivers of flowing mercury defend against intruders. Considered too dangerous to excavate, 95% of the mausoleum is still buried and its contents remain secret. The tomb has little to see, so we will visit the site by viewing at a distance instead of taking a close look at. You'll be transferred from the museum to the best ViewPoint where you can view the whole area of the Maosoleunm of Qin Shi Huang. You'll be shocked by the large size of the mausoleum. Your tour guide will tell the story why the Qin Shi Huang choose this site to expect to continue his rule in death as it had in life, and some inference about the structure and distribution of the underground palace. A quick facts of Emperor Qin Shi Huang (259–210 BC) Conservation and Restoration Open Workshop in Pit 1 How the Terracotta Warriors Were Made View the whole area of the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang at a distance Try to find the answers for some interesting questions while visiting the Terracotta museum • Photography is not allowed in Pit 1 or in the Bronze Chariots and Horses Pit. However you can take photos in the north exhibition. • Your entrance ticket will be checked twice in the museum, at the pits containing the Terracotta Warriors and in the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. Please take care of your ticket. • It is very crowded and noisy during the peak season. In order to make sure you can hear what your guide is saying, we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly and do not miss any interesting stories. • All three pits are protected from tourists by a certain distance restriction. The 8,000 statues of terracotta soldiers are all individual and it is impossible to find two of them that look exactly alike. Some look happy with slightly raised cheeks while some look sad with frowning eyebrows. However, as they are all protected from tourists by a distance of 20 meters, how will you see the details? As a privilege for our customers, you will be equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you. we have prepared an FM headset so that you can hear your guide clearly Equipped with a telescope so that there will be no secrets left in front of you China Highlights / Trippest Clients at Terracotta Warriors Museum 12pm – 1:30pmHave Lunch at a Local Restaurant (Not Included) In order to help our customers experience the most authentic Xi'an local food, we have selected a featured local restaurant near the Terracotta Warriors Museum. Lunch fee is not included. There, you'll have the chance to taste the local people's favorite food, such as Rou Jia Mo (肉夹馍, we also call it a Chinese hamburger), Yang Rou Pao Mo (羊肉泡馍, pita bread soaked in lamb soup; your guide will show you how to break the bread into small pieces), noodles, and dumplings. Please let us know your food preferences, such as a vegetarian diet, Muslim food, gluten-free food, etc. so that we can make preparations in advance. Yang Rou Pao Mo Yang Rou Pao Mo 12pm – 1:30pmHave Lunch at a Local Restaurant (Not Included) In order to help our customers experience the most authentic Xi'an local food, we have selected a featured local restaurant near the Terracotta Warriors Museum. Lunch fee is not included. There, you'll have the chance to taste the local people's favorite food, such as Rou Jia Mo (肉夹馍, we also call it a Chinese hamburger), Yang Rou Pao Mo (羊肉泡馍, pita bread soaked in lamb soup; your guide will show you how to break the bread into small pieces), noodles, and dumplings. Please let us know your food preferences, such as a vegetarian diet, Muslim food, gluten-free food, etc. so that we can make preparations in advance. Yang Rou Pao Mo Yang Rou Pao Mo In order to help our customers experience the most authentic Xi'an local food, we have selected a featured local restaurant near the Terracotta Warriors Museum. Lunch fee is not included. There, you'll have the chance to taste the local people's favorite food, such as Rou Jia Mo (肉夹馍, we also call it a Chinese hamburger), Yang Rou Pao Mo (羊肉泡馍, pita bread soaked in lamb soup; your guide will show you how to break the bread into small pieces), noodles, and dumplings. Please let us know your food preferences, such as a vegetarian diet, Muslim food, gluten-free food, etc. so that we can make preparations in advance. 1:30pm – 2:30pmDrive Back to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, please book the transfer service with us in advance. Good to Know: If you plan to leave Xian after your tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle. You will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour if you book the private transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) with us, to make best use of your time. It normally takes about 1 hour to transfer from the city center to airport. You will need to be at the airport at least 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. 1:30pm – 2:30pmDrive Back to Your Hotel We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, please book the transfer service with us in advance. Good to Know: If you plan to leave Xian after your tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle. You will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour if you book the private transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) with us, to make best use of your time. It normally takes about 1 hour to transfer from the city center to airport. You will need to be at the airport at least 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. We will transfer you to your hotel at the end of the tour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour, please book the transfer service with us in advance. • If you plan to leave Xian after your tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. • You may leave your luggage in our vehicle. • You will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour if you book the private transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) with us, to make best use of your time. • It normally takes about 1 hour to transfer from the city center to airport. You will need to be at the airport at least 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. • Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. Know Before You Book Important Notes: Price Includes: Admission to Terracotta Warrior Museum. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an). English-speaking professional local guide. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Airport transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) Important Notes: Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. Important Notes: Price Includes: Admission to Terracotta Warrior Museum. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an). English-speaking professional local guide. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Airport transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) Important Notes: Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. Price Includes: Admission to Terracotta Warrior Museum. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an). English-speaking professional local guide. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Airport transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) Important Notes: Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. Price Includes: Admission to Terracotta Warrior Museum. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an). English-speaking professional local guide. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Airport transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) • Admission to Terracotta Warrior Museum. • Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an). • English-speaking professional local guide. • Personal expenses. • Lunch fee (60 RMB per capita, depending on appetite). • Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). • Airport transfer (price from 18 USD p/p) Important Notes: Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. • Guaranteed daily departure. • Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the 3rd ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. What Makes Us Different We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 129 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 129 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 129 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20