ID: 6e39a4025f1d1165
Title: Xizhou Town — One of the Filming Locations for Meet Yourself
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/dali/attraction/houses-of-bai-people-in-xizhou.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Xizhou, meaning 'joyful island', has attracted many more travelers since featuring in the TV series Meet Yourself. As its name suggests, experiencing the relaxed and tranquil atmosphere of this slow-paced old town indeed fills people with joy. Being a vibrant ethnic center of the Bai minority, you could explore the richness of the Bai ethnic culture and history. It was once a trade and academic hub, being one of the trading posts on the Tea Horse Road, when it was known as "Cambridge of the East" for cultivating many Chinese professors and scholars. • Location: the west lakeshore of Er Hai, Dali, Yunnan • When to visit: attractive to visit all year round • Popular attractions/activities: Bai residences, billowing wheat fields, tie-dying, the morning market • Entrance: free • Time needed: 2–3 hours minimum • Open: all day • Top Things to Do in Xizhou • How to Get to Xizhou • Best Times to Visit Xizhou • Where to Stay in Xizhou • Tips for Photography in Xizhou • Dali/Xizhou/Shuanglang Ancient Town Top Things to Do in Xizhou Town 1. Appreciate the Architecture of the Bai Residences Bai residences in Xizhou Many historical Bai residences are well-preserved in Xizhou Town. These structures are adorned with colorful pictures, gardens, marble, upturned eaves, and bright colors. They carry the weight of history and culture as well as their scholarly and craftsmanship elements, offering a window into the rich heritage of the Bai people. Amid the rich tapestry of Xizhou's architectural heritage, two iconic Bai structures stand out as essential highlights, where you can witness the grandeur and intricate artistry of Bai residences. Old Wooden Corner House: Located at the intersection, this prominent landmark combines Bai and Western architectural styles, featuring a unique design with strong visual appeal. Old Wooden Corner House: Yan Family Compound: Once the grand residence of a local wealthy family for over a century, it is now open to visitors as a museum. The compound features impressive architecture and exquisite details, providing insights into the local history, culture, and traditions. 2. Take Photographs in Billowing Wheat Fields The golden wheat fields with decorative train Follow the steps of Meet Yourself and you wander into the vast fields to spend some leisure time. Maybe the breeze would evoke childhood memories as the wheat in the fields sways or the paddy fields ripple. Beyond the roadside views, there are some recommended photo spots in the rice fields: • Field Cafés: There are several cafés nestled within the vast rice fields, offering a perfect blend of relaxation and artistry. You could use the windows as a frame for your rustic photos. • "I Have a Field by Erhai Lake": This is a photo base featuring expansive rice fields. With set decorations, including a picturesque train, crossing tracks, and charming swings, you could capture photos with a Miyazaki-movie-like atmosphere. Another filming location of Meet Yourself is a giant Banyan tree. It is beside the paddies. If you are a fan of this drama, this towering tree, which is over 300 years old, is also spectacular and perfect for photography. 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life Admire the fields in different months: The fields are cultivated with different crops at different times, with wheat fields from February to May and paddy fields from July to November, as well as some seasonal rape flower fields typically in March. Splendid rape flower fields in Xizhou • February: green wheat fields but with relatively short seedlings • March to April: verdant wheat fields and bright yellow rape flower fields in March • May: golden wheat fields • June: the harvest month and rice planting period (not recommended) • July and August: growing season with fresh and green paddy fields • September: green paddy fields with a light yellow due to the ripening rice • October: golden paddy fields • November: harvest month (not recommended) • December to January: fallow period with just a little wild grass (not recommended) 3. Enjoy Shopping and Savoring Local Snacks Square Street is the center of the town and is surrounded by shops. Good souvenirs of dyed cloth, marble crafts, braided fabrics, and art may be bought there. The quality is good, but you have to bargain to get lower prices. While visiting Square Street, you could savor the popular local snack called Xizhou baba. This crispy pancake is available in both sweet and savory flavors. If you have a sweet tooth, don't miss out on trying the brown sugar flavor. Another local favorite is Three Course Tea, a unique experience consisting of bitter tea, sweet tea, and aftertaste tea (bitter, sweet, and also spicy). It symbolizes the transition from life's hardships to its sweeter and spicier moments. 4. Experience Bai Ethnic Tie-Dying Hanging tie-die fabrics Bai people around the Er Lake area are masters in tie-dying so, in Xizhou Town, you could find many tie-dye shops open for visitors to experience it. This hands-on activity is suitable for families with kids, couples, and friends to enjoy a handicraft experience and create unique souvenirs. The dye used is derived from natural plants, typically resulting in a blue color. You could choose from a wide range of items to tie-dye, including clothes, bags, toys, handkerchiefs, hair bands, etc. The streets are also lined with many tie-dye crafts available for purchase at affordable prices. 5. Explore the Morning Market in Xizhou Town Bai people are selling goods along the wall Every morning, the local market in Xizhou comes alive with bustling activities as the Bai people go about their daily lives. They set up stalls to sell a colorful array of goods, with fresh fish, vegetables, fruits, poultry, and dairy products. Breakfast offerings are also plentiful and diverse. You would see the Bai ladies dress in their traditional clothes and engage in the lively trade of farming products. The morning market is a vivid representation of Bai daily life, as well as a special kind of romance that vanishes by 11am as the market winds down. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan How to Get to Xizhou Town From Dali Railway Station • Taxi: 1½ hours' drive — about 120–160 yuan (17–22 USD) • Shuttle bus: requires transfers in Dali Ancient Town, not very frequent • Taxi: 1-hour drive — about 140–250 yuan (20–35 USD) • Shuttle bus: 1½ hours with a transfer in Dali Ancient Town From Dali Ancient Town • Taxi/private vehicle: 30 minutes' drive, flexible and fast, highly recommended • Direct shuttle bus: 30 minutes' drive, cost-effective but less comfortable • Bike/scooter: 1 hour's ride, ideal for cycling enthusiasts who could enjoy the pleasant scenery along the way Best Times to Visit Xizhou The best times to visit Xizhou Town are spring (March to May) and autumn (September to October). These seasons offer more clear days and fewer crowds, making it suitable to walk around and admire verdant or golden rice fields. Summer is suitable for escaping the heat in Xizhou Town. The blossoming water lilies at Zhengyi Gate are gorgeous, while the paddy fields are vibrant green from July and August. However, you may also encounter crowds and showers due to the summer vacation and rainy season. Winter is mild in Xizhou Town. This season also offers more clear days and fewer crowds. But the paddy fields are fallow with just a little wild grass. You could spend more time experiencing the Bai culture and admiring the architecture. Verdant paddy fields in Xizhou Visit in the Day or Night You could immerse yourself in the lively and vibrant atmosphere in the daytime. The morning market is bustling and many shops and travelers are active during this period. In addition, the daylight is perfect for enjoying and photographing the rice fields. Nighttime in Xizhou Town is silent and peaceful with a calm vibe. There is little nightlife there and you would hardly see any people or shops open after 7pm. It is a suitable time to enjoy rustic, slow-paced life. Where to Stay in Xizhou Town If you prefer a quiet and peaceful environment as well as countryside scenery, Xizhou Town could be an ideal choice. Xizhou is relatively small with limited accommodation options. Most boutique hotels or inns there are decorated in the Bai ethnic style, offering a charming local atmosphere. Here are some of the best hotels for your reference: • The Linden Centre: founded by an American couple, enjoying the rice field scenery, within 10 minutes' walk of Xizhou town center • Sky Valley Heritage Boutique Hotel: a handcrafted hotel, East- and West-style rooms available, beautiful Bai-style construction How to Plan Your Dali Trip with Xizhou Town A trip to Dali including Xizhou Town usually takes about 3–4 days, and you could find planning inspiration from this suggested itinerary. Our tours are fully customizable, and we are ready to create a trip based on your requirements and interests. • Day 1: Dali arrival, Dali Old Town • Day 2: Cang Mountain hiking/adventures • Day 3: Er Lake cycling, Xizhou Town, making flower cakes • Day 4: Departure or extend your trip to other Yunnan destinations If you don't just want to visit Dali and are looking for a more comprehensive Yunnan itinerary, you could check out more our Yunnan tours. Nearby Attractions to Visit Zhoucheng: It is the home of tie-dye, with a museum where you could learn about the history and culture of tie-dying. If you would like a tie-dying experience, Zhoucheng offers more choices and is only a 10-minute drive from Xizhou Town. Er'hai Lake: Xizhou Old Town center is only about 3 kilometers (2 miles) from Er Lake, making it a good choice to combine a trip to these two attractions. Drive leisurely alongside Erhai to/from Xizhou, stopping at various attractions along the way. Alternatively, cycle from Xizhou to Caicun, which is a popular sightseeing route on the west shore of Erhai. Tips for Photography in Xizhou Town Xizhou Town, a pleasant place for a leisurely visit and popular among art enthusiasts, offers great photo spots to capture memorable photographs. It is suitable for both landscape and portrait photography. • Vibrant and natural hues: rice fields and the giant banyan tree (to capture the Meet Yourself vibe), and water lilies at Zhengyi Gate • Old-time hues: Old Wooden Corner House, cobblestone lanes, stone wall with the words "喜洲", and a morning market. It's easy to capture photos with a sense of story. • Blue hues: tie-dye shops — many tie-dye fabrics in blue and white colors are hanging and fluttering on the lines, resembling the blue sky and white clouds • Artistic vibe: The cafés in Xizhou blend local characteristics, each with unique decorations and atmospheres to spend some leisurely time and take photographs. For example, there is a popular thatched-roof café with walls covered in writing. Dali Ancient Town, Xizhou Town, and Shuanglang Town There are three popular ancient towns beside Er Lake in Dali, namely Dali Old Town, Xizhou Town, and Shuanglang Town. Each of them enjoys unique scenery and you would have a different experience while visiting each of them. Destination Dali Ancient Town Xizhou Town Shuanglang Town Feature More well-known, bustling with diverse nightlife, Nanzhao Country Evening Show Billowing rice fields, the filming location for Meet Yourself, Bai ethnic residences Right next to Er Lake, ideal for admiring lakeside scenery Scale Quite large Small Small Location West of Er Lake West of Er Lake East of Er Lake Tour Time A half day 2–3 hours 2–3 hours Current Situation Commercialized Less-commercialized, a more authentic vibe Commercialized Crowds Crowded Less crowded Less crowded Finding Your Ideal Ancient Town to Visit For first-timers, Dali Old Town is ideal and popular as a base for exploring attractions around Er Lake. With its larger size, you could enjoy more accommodation and dining options as well as convenient transportation. In addition, it is quiet during the day while vibrant at night for diverse evening activities. If you prefer a more authentic old town with a slow pace of life, Xizhou Town is recommended. Its splendid Bai ethnic architecture, genuine depiction of Bai daily life, and rural-fairy-tale paddy fields provide a tranquil escape from the hustle and bustle. Shuanglang Town is perfect for enjoying the atmosphere of an old town while also admiring the enchanting scenery of Er Lake. Its lakeside road with brilliant flowers is right next to Er Lake, also making it a beautiful photo background.