ID: 1d9137050e9e315
Title: Wuyi Mountains Travel Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xiamen/attraction/mount-wuyi.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The Wuyi Mountains are listed as a World Cultural and Natural Heritage Site by UNESCO. They are located between Wuyishan City in Fujian Province and Wuyishan Town in Jiangxi Province, around a 3½-hour train ride from Shanghai or Xiamen. The Wuyi Mountains are well known for their abundance of deep canyons, dense forests, waterfalls, animals, flora, and fauna. They are an idyllic destination for any nature lover. Wuyishan is suitable for travel all year round with a different type of beauty in each season. • What to See in the Wuyi Mountains • How to Plan a Tour in the Wuyi Mountains • Best Times to Visit Wuyishan • How to Get to the Wuyi Mountains • Where to Stay near the Wuyi Mountains What to See in the Wuyi Mountains The tour routes in Wuyi Mountains Scenic Area can be divided into four parts: 1) Nine-Bend River and Wuyi Palace Scenic Area, 2) One-Line-Sky and Tiger Hissing Scenic Area, 3) Tianyoufeng ('Sky-Swimming Peak'), and 4) Da Hong Pao and Water Curtain Cave Area. Whether you're interested in hiking, boating, bird watching, tea estates, waterfalls, cultural heritage sites, or simply want to explore a beautiful, pollution-free part of China, the Wuyi Mountain Range offers something for everyone. Nine-Bend Creek (九曲溪 Jiuqu Xi) is the centerpiece of Mt. Wuyi. This river is aptly named, as it abruptly changes course nine times over its 8.5 square-kilometer (3.3 square-mile) region of the park. Two gorgeous waterfalls, known as the Green Dragon Waterfall and Phoenix Waterfall, are particularly beautiful attractions. A few caves are located directly adjacent to the waterfalls, giving visitors an unparalleled view through the cascades of water. Nine-Bend Creek is flanked on either side by mountain peaks and stones of unusual shapes that are interwoven with various watercourses. Each bend forms a unique picturesque and poetic landscape and each landscape has its own name. There are bamboo rafts for visitors. The final destination of the bamboo rafting river section is Wuyi Palace, which is one of the top 6 famous Taoist temples built in the Song Dynasty (between 742 and 755 AD). In Wuyi Palace, Song Street is a medieval replica street full of Song Dynasty-style buildings. One-Line-Sky Scenic Area The One-Line-Sky (一线天 Yixiantian) area is the southernmost area of the Wuyi Mountains. It is mainly a grand valley running from east to west. This area is famous for its linear view of the sky from the bottom of the valley. Blue Rock and Pavilion Rock, opposite three caves, are also noted for their rugged beauty, steepness, and diverse recesses. The red mountain peaks, clustering like a forest, the vertically steep Danxia (red sandstone) landforms, the rare back-to-back caves, and topography are nature's beauty at its best. Tiger Hissing Scenic Area Tiger Hissing Peak (虎啸岩 Huxiao Yan) is one of the 36 famous mountain peaks of the Wuyi Mountains. It is very steep and detached from the other peaks around it. The mountain is in the shape of a roaring tiger. Sounds resembling tigers' hisses can be heard every time the wind sweeps through the pine forest. Legend has it that a deity rode on a tiger on the mountain. Tours generally circle Tiger Hissing Peak, with beautiful scenes around each bend of the rocks. Tianyou Feng (天游峰 'Sky-Swimming Peak') is situated north of the fifth and sixth bends of the Nine-Bend River and covers an area of 4 square kilometers (1.5 square miles). With ever-changing cloud reflections in the water and the sun shining through the fog, Tianyou Peak is the number one must-see spot in the Mt. Wuyi area. After rainfall or when dawn breaks, the ever-shrouding clouds allow only the tip of the mountain to be visible, hence its name Tianyou, which literally means 'roaming in heaven' or 'swimming in the sky'. The vista from the top changes with the seasons: blooming flowers during spring, dense greenery during summer months, colorful fall foliage, and the beauty of the clouds in winter. The Water Curtain Cave Area Water Curtain Cave (水帘洞 Shuilian Dong) is the largest cavern in the Wuyi Mountains. Deep valleys form cracks among huge rocks of various shapes and sizes. Creeks and waterfalls run through the cracks. Pine trees, bamboo forests, and various flowers abound. The spaces between the rocks and brooks are where the famous Wuyi Rock Tea trees are planted. A dense cluster of these tea trees is scattered in Nine Dragon Cave, nourished by water from the springs. Wuyi Rock Tea is a famous Chinese tea. Some tearooms are located inside the cave. Da Hong Pao Scenic Area Da Hong Pao Scenic Area is in the central part of the Wuyi Mountains. In this area, you can not only see Yongle Buddhist Temple, the biggest temple in these mountains but also visit the place where the well-known Da Hong Pao tea grows. Da Hong Pao is one of the top 10 famous teas, as well as a cultural treasure, in China, and it was a tea used as a tribute to the emperor of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644). There are only a few (less than 10) original trees growing on the cliff, and they are all over 1,000 years old. How to Plan a Tour in the Wuyi Mountains The entrance ticket for Wuyi Mountain National Scenic Area can be a 1- to a 3-day pass. • One Day Pass: 140 yuan + 75 yuan shuttle bus fee = 215 yuan • Two Day Pass: 150 yuan + 85 yuan shuttle bus fee = 235 yuan • Three Day Pass: 160 yuan + 90 yuan shuttle bus fee = 250 yuan • Bamboo Rafting: 100 yuan • Green Dragon Waterfall: 40 yuan Shuttle bus services are available between the attractions. There are no cable cars to ascend the mountains, but they are quite easy to climb. Usually, 2–3 days are suggested for a trip in Wuyishan to make the most of it, with a night stay near the mountain site. We suggest a 3-day itinerary as follows: • Day 1: Wuyishan arrival. Visit One-Line-Sky in the afternoon. If you arrive in the morning you can add Tiger Hissing Scenic Area to the day's itinerary. • Day 2: Da Hong Pao and Water Curtain Cave Area. Visit a Tea Plantation • Day 3: Bamboo rafting on Nine-Bend Creek. Then, "Farewell, Wuyishan!" If you leave in the evening, you can climb Tianyoufeng Peak in the afternoon. If your holiday is longer, you could also spend 2–3 days visiting Xiamen (3 hours away by train). Elegant Gulangyu Island would regale you with wonderful coastal scenery. A visit to the protected Haka Tulou earthen buildings could introduce you to the legends and the history of the Hakka people. • 3-Day Wuyishan Refreshing Tour with Tea Experience • 5-Day Xiamen, Tulou, and Wuyi Mountain Tour If you are planning a tour of Wuyi Mountain, send us your inquiry. Best Times to Visit Wuyi Mountain The Wuyishan mountains have four distinct seasons. The coldest month is January with an average lowest temperature of 0°C (32°F). The hottest month is July with average high temperatures of 34°C (93°F). The Wuyi Mountains are worth visiting all year round, as they show different beauty in each season. Spring (Late March to May): Best for the Tea Plantation and Blossoming Flowers Temperature range (on average): 15 to 25°C (59–77°F) Spring is the season for viewing tea plantations and flower blossoms in Wuyishan. Tea leaves are fresh with verdancy. When you look down from Tianyou Peak, you will find blossoming flowers decorating the entire mountain. Summer (June to August): Lush Greenery, Retreat from the Heat Temperature range (on average): 23–33°C (73–91°F) Summer is the time when everything grows most luxuriantly. The Wuyishan Mountains are a wonderful summer retreat in a sea of green. The hottest month in Wuyi Mountain is July, when the highest temperature can be over 37°C (98°F). If you choose this season to travel, it is suggested to stay inside and rest in your hotel from 1 pm to 3 pm to avoid the hottest hours. Autumn (September to Mid-November): Red Leaves Temperature range (on average): 15–25°C (59–77°F) In September, Wuyishan Mountain is turning into autumn gradually and the maple leaves began to turn red. Especially around the Mid-Autumn Festival (which usually falls in mid- Sep) period. It's a good season for a mountain climb, with less rain and pleasant weather. Plus, the clear skies and red leaves bless the Mountains with awesome vistas. Winter (Mid-November to Mid-March): Foggy Scenery Temperature range (on average): 5–10°C (41–50°F) It is not very cold in Wuyishan Mountain during winter. It is a good time to see fog-covered mountains and seas of clouds. If you're lucky enough, you may meet snowy weather. Hotels are discounted, and you can enjoy a virtually crowd-free trip in winter. How to Get to the Wuyi Mountains Wuyishan is a small city that can be reached by flights and trains. The best way to get to Wuyi Mountain is to take a high-speed train from Shanghai (3½ hours), Hangzhou (2½ hours), Beijing (7½ hours), Xiamen (3½ hours), or Fuzhou (1½ hours). There are two railway stations in Wuyishan: Wuyishan North Railway Station and Nanping Railway station. You can choose to take a train to either station. They are both about 28 km (17 miles), a 25-minute drive, from Wuyi Mountain Scenic Area. Flights are also available, but there are fewer options. At present, airlines just fly from the cities of Beijing and Guangzhou. Wuyishan Airport is very close to the Wuyi Mountains — only 12 km (8 miles) away. Where to Stay near the Wuyi Mountains Wuyishan is a small prefecture, so no matter where you stay in Wuyishan, it will not need long to get to the scenic area, railway station, or airport. There are three typically used areas for accommodations: the Sangu Resort area, Xingcun Village, and downtown Wuyishan. We suggest our customers stay in the Sangu Resort area or Xingcun village as these areas are close to Wuyi Mountain Scenic Area and have more hotel options. Sangu Resort is the top-recommended area, which has the most hotel options and is just opposite Wuyi Mountain Scenic Area, about 3 km (2 miles) from the entrance. There are all kinds of hotels gathered there, from 5-star luxurious hotels to 4-star mid-range hotels, as well as hostels and inns. • 5-star: Wyndham Garden Wuyishan • 4-star: Days Hotel by Wyndham Yinxiang Wuyishan • 4-star: Wuyi Mountain Yiqu Xiangsi Alhu Resort Hotel Xingcun village is close to the Nine-Bend River area. It is only a 10-minute walk from Xingcun to the bamboo rafting pier. It is better for travelers who have a tight schedule and want an early bamboo raft ride or to start their mountain climbing early in the morning. Xingcun was once the main tourist area in Wuyishan before Sangu Resort was built, so there are some good hotels there. • 5-star: Wuyi Mountain Jooch Resort Hotel • 5-star: Jiaye Mountain House • 4-star: Yuejiuqu Boutique Hotel Wuyishan 5-Day Xiamen, Tulou, and Wuyi Mountains Tour - Cultural and Scenic Tour 3-Day Wuyishan Refreshing Tour with Tea Experience Not interested in the above tours? Our tours can be tailor-made. Just tell us your interests and requirements, and we will create a perfect Wuyi Mountain tour for you.