ID: 23e92851c3efd1b9
Title: Best Times to Visit the Silk Road: A Month-by-Month Weather Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/silkroad/best-time-to-visit.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The Silk Road in China stretches from Xi'an to the westernmost region of Xinjiang, delving deep into northwest China. This area is vast and encompasses deserts, grasslands, temples, and Buddhist grottoes. The best times for travel vary due to the diversity of landscapes and the unique features of different cities. Our article provides specific recommendations for the best times to visit based on your preferences and interests in exploring this region. • Best Time for Good Weather • Best Times for Families • Best Times for Couples • Guide by Month The Best Times to Visit the Silk Road for Good Weather The best times to visit the Silk Road for good weather generally fall in the spring and autumn months when the weather is more temperate and pleasant. Below, we've provided a breakdown of the best times to visit different sections of the Silk Road for favorable weather conditions. 1. The Start of the Silk Road (Xi'an, Lanzhou…): Learn to make a mini clay warrior in Xi'an • Best times: spring (April to June) and autumn (September to November) • Reason: These seasons offer mild temperatures with pleasant weather for outdoor activities and sightseeing. Spring brings blooming flowers while autumn features colorful foliage. 2. Central Section (Dunhuang, Zhangye…): Zhangye danxia landform • Best times: spring (April to early June) and autumn (late September to October) • Reason: These periods provide relief from the extreme summer heat and the bleak winters, making it more comfortable to explore the desert landscapes and historical sites. 3. The Western End (Xinjiang): Ride a horse in Xinjiang • Best times: late spring (May to early June) and early autumn (late August to October) • Reason: These months offer a balance between the extreme cold of winter and the intense heat of summer in the western regions. The weather is generally milder, making it suitable for travel. The Best Time to Visit the Silk Road for Family Travel For families with school-age children, the summer break is often the only significant free time to travel, but it aligns with China's hot and rainy season (from June to August). Despite the less-than-ideal weather conditions, with thoughtful planning and preparation, you could maximize your vacation experience and still create quality family time. • Rainfall is not a big problem: The Silk Road is in a dry area. There is not much rain so the rain would not affect your Silk Road trip. Your family could have many outdoor experiences, such as sand skiing and camel riding. • Don't be discouraged by the heat: Along the Silk Road, there are many cool, scenic, and less-visited destinations, such as plateau areas with Tibetan villages, lakes, grasslands, and glaciers. Choosing the right time of day to explore is also a great solution, such as visiting the desert just before sunset. This is when the desert is less crowded and relatively cool. Plus, you could witness a beautiful desert sunset. • Explore indoor activities: The Silk Road also has no shortage of interesting indoor activities. You could consider visiting museums, making your own mini terracotta warrior, or choosing a grotto mural sample to create your own mud slab copy to take home. No matter in what season you visit, we would carefully customize your itinerary to balance the interests of your family and create quality family time without any hassles. 12-Day Silk Road Private Tour from Xian to Kashgar Xi'an-Zhangye-Dunhuang-Turpan-Urumqi-Kashgar 12-Day Silk Road Private Tour from Xian to Kashgar Xi'an-Zhangye-Dunhuang-Turpan-Urumqi-Kashgar 12-Day Silk Road Private Tour from Xian to Kashgar Xi'an-Zhangye-Dunhuang-Turpan-Urumqi-Kashgar The Best Times to Visit the Silk Road for Couples Couples often have more flexible schedules, especially retired couples. So, couples can often choose an ideal travel time, allowing for both good weather and a relatively peaceful touring environment. April to early June (except for the first week of May) and September and October (except for the first week of October) are the best times for couples to explore the Silk Road. These periods not only ensure a comfortable travel experience but also provide more opportunities for privacy and romantic moments at historical sites and in natural settings. Ride a camal in Singing Sand Mountains Our private tours offer couples customized options and more personal space with your own private guide. You would have a more in-depth and less-touristy experience as well as a worry-free tour. Just contact us and we'll create a hassle-free trip for you. 21-Day China and Silk Road Tour China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour 21-Day China and Silk Road Tour China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour 21-Day China and Silk Road Tour China Classic Wonders and Silk Road Tour By-Month Silk Road Travel Guide • January • February • August • September • October • November • December The Silk Road in January Xi'an's average daily temperature range: -3–5°C (27–41°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: -15–-1°C (5–30°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -16–-8°C (3–18°F) In January, the Silk Road's vast expanse experiences diverse weather conditions. In western regions, such as Xinjiang, you would encounter continuously well-below-freezing temperatures and occasional snowfall, while Xi'an has very cold weather hovering around freezing. This bitter cold would allow you to explore ancient cities, markets, and historical sites with fewer crowds. 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities The Silk Road in January • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: -3–5°C (27–41°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: -15–-1°C (5–30°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -16–-8°C (3–18°F) In January, the Silk Road's vast expanse experiences diverse weather conditions. In western regions, such as Xinjiang, you would encounter continuously well-below-freezing temperatures and occasional snowfall, while Xi'an has very cold weather hovering around freezing. This bitter cold would allow you to explore ancient cities, markets, and historical sites with fewer crowds. 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities 13-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Urumqi–Shanghai Tour Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities The Silk Road in February Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 0–9°C (32–48°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: -10–5°C (14–41°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -14–-6°C (7–21°F) February continues to offer a variety of cold-to-frigid conditions along the Silk Road. Visiting the ancient cities, markets, museums, and mosques, as well as enjoying other sightseeing activities are no problem. In the afternoon, when the sun is bright, you could also try some outdoor activities, such as riding a bicycle on Xi'an City Wall. For a unique experience, celebrate the Chinese New Year in cities like Xi'an. Witness vibrant parades, traditional performances, and the warmth of local hospitality. 12-Day Xi'an–Tianshui–Lanzhou–Linxia–Xiahe–Dunhuang–Turpan Tour Unveil the Artistic and Cultural Legacy of Minorities The Silk Road in February • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 0–9°C (32–48°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: -10–5°C (14–41°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -14–-6°C (7–21°F) February continues to offer a variety of cold-to-frigid conditions along the Silk Road. Visiting the ancient cities, markets, museums, and mosques, as well as enjoying other sightseeing activities are no problem. In the afternoon, when the sun is bright, you could also try some outdoor activities, such as riding a bicycle on Xi'an City Wall. For a unique experience, celebrate the Chinese New Year in cities like Xi'an. Witness vibrant parades, traditional performances, and the warmth of local hospitality. 12-Day Xi'an–Tianshui–Lanzhou–Linxia–Xiahe–Dunhuang–Turpan Tour Unveil the Artistic and Cultural Legacy of Minorities 12-Day Xi'an–Tianshui–Lanzhou–Linxia–Xiahe–Dunhuang–Turpan Tour Unveil the Artistic and Cultural Legacy of Minorities 12-Day Xi'an–Tianshui–Lanzhou–Linxia–Xiahe–Dunhuang–Turpan Tour Unveil the Artistic and Cultural Legacy of Minorities The Silk Road in March Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 6–17°C (43–63°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 0–16°C (32–61°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -2–7°C (28–45°F) March welcomes spring along the eastern Silk Road, bringing milder temperatures and blossoming landscapes, while Xinjiang remains locked in winter. The pleasant weather and fewer tourists make for an enriching experience. It's a quiet time to explore historical sites, such as visiting the Mogao Caves in Dunhuang or exploring the ancient city of Kashgar. > 14-Day Beijing–Dunhuang–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie China Cultural and Natural Beauty Tour The Silk Road in March • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 6–17°C (43–63°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 0–16°C (32–61°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -2–7°C (28–45°F) March welcomes spring along the eastern Silk Road, bringing milder temperatures and blossoming landscapes, while Xinjiang remains locked in winter. The pleasant weather and fewer tourists make for an enriching experience. It's a quiet time to explore historical sites, such as visiting the Mogao Caves in Dunhuang or exploring the ancient city of Kashgar. > 14-Day Beijing–Dunhuang–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie China Cultural and Natural Beauty Tour 14-Day Beijing–Dunhuang–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie China Cultural and Natural Beauty Tour 14-Day Beijing–Dunhuang–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie China Cultural and Natural Beauty Tour The Silk Road in April Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 11–24°C (52–75°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 6–23°C (43–73°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 7–18°C (45–64°F) April is a delightful time to explore the Silk Road's historical and natural wonders. Visit the Terracotta Army in Xi'an, where cherry blossoms bloom, or trek across the Heavenly Mountains in Xinjiang. The weather is pleasant and nature comes alive with color. The Silk Road in April • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 11–24°C (52–75°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 6–23°C (43–73°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 7–18°C (45–64°F) April is a delightful time to explore the Silk Road's historical and natural wonders. Visit the Terracotta Army in Xi'an, where cherry blossoms bloom, or trek across the Heavenly Mountains in Xinjiang. The weather is pleasant and nature comes alive with color. The Silk Road in May Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 17–28°C (63–82°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 11–28°C (52–82°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 13–24°C (55–75°F) May offers travelers a best time to enjoy the Silk Road's full diversity. You would be able to do all activities comfortably in May's weather. Explore the stunning Flaming Mountains in Turpan. Experience nomadic life with a yurt stay and Kazakh culture near Sayram Lake. Visit old caves as well as ancient towns and ruins along the Silk Road. Find out more details about Silk Road weather in May, and tips on where to go and what to wear in May. 21-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Xining–Dulan–Chaka–Xiahe–Jiuzhaigou–Chengdu Classic China Culture Tour • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 17–28°C (63–82°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 11–28°C (52–82°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 13–24°C (55–75°F) May offers travelers a best time to enjoy the Silk Road's full diversity. You would be able to do all activities comfortably in May's weather. Explore the stunning Flaming Mountains in Turpan. Experience nomadic life with a yurt stay and Kazakh culture near Sayram Lake. Visit old caves as well as ancient towns and ruins along the Silk Road. Find out more details about Silk Road weather in May, and tips on where to go and what to wear in May. 21-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Xining–Dulan–Chaka–Xiahe–Jiuzhaigou–Chengdu Classic China Culture Tour 21-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Xining–Dulan–Chaka–Xiahe–Jiuzhaigou–Chengdu Classic China Culture Tour 21-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Dunhuang–Xining–Dulan–Chaka–Xiahe–Jiuzhaigou–Chengdu Classic China Culture Tour The Silk Road in June Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 22–33°C (72–91°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 17–33°C (63–91°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 19–29°C (66–84°F) June marks the beginning of summer along the Silk Road. At the start of summer, with lot of sunshine and little rain, many activities are appropriate, though avoiding the mid-day sun is advisable in some places. Explore the bustling markets of Kashgar in Xinjiang, where traders have convened for centuries. Explore the Mogao Caves in Dunhuang. You could see elaborate murals and copy one yourself to take home as a souvenir. Go to Zhangye Danxia National Geopark to see multicolored ridges of weathered strata stretch to the horizon. 15-Day Kunming–Dali–Lijiang–Chengdu–Jiuzhaigou–Dunhuang–Jiayuguan Classic Yunnan and Panda Tour The Silk Road in June • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 22–33°C (72–91°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 17–33°C (63–91°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 19–29°C (66–84°F) June marks the beginning of summer along the Silk Road. At the start of summer, with lot of sunshine and little rain, many activities are appropriate, though avoiding the mid-day sun is advisable in some places. Explore the bustling markets of Kashgar in Xinjiang, where traders have convened for centuries. Explore the Mogao Caves in Dunhuang. You could see elaborate murals and copy one yourself to take home as a souvenir. Go to Zhangye Danxia National Geopark to see multicolored ridges of weathered strata stretch to the horizon. 15-Day Kunming–Dali–Lijiang–Chengdu–Jiuzhaigou–Dunhuang–Jiayuguan Classic Yunnan and Panda Tour 15-Day Kunming–Dali–Lijiang–Chengdu–Jiuzhaigou–Dunhuang–Jiayuguan Classic Yunnan and Panda Tour 15-Day Kunming–Dali–Lijiang–Chengdu–Jiuzhaigou–Dunhuang–Jiayuguan Classic Yunnan and Panda Tour The Silk Road in July Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 21–31°C (70–88°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 19–35°C (66–95°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 25–35°C (77–95°F) In July, the natural scenery along the Silk Road is at its best. Vibrant fields of golden-yellow rapeseed blossoms stretch out as far as the eye can see around Qinghai Lake. Heavenly Lake's crystal-clear waters take on a deep emerald hue and are surrounded by lush green forests. To avoid the heat and summer crowds, Gannan is a good option for both adults and kids. Explore diverse highland natural sceneries, including mountains, valleys, gorges, wetlands, and meadows. Experience cultural immersion by visiting Tibetan villages and temples. The Silk Road in July • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 21–31°C (70–88°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 19–35°C (66–95°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 25–35°C (77–95°F) In July, the natural scenery along the Silk Road is at its best. Vibrant fields of golden-yellow rapeseed blossoms stretch out as far as the eye can see around Qinghai Lake. Heavenly Lake's crystal-clear waters take on a deep emerald hue and are surrounded by lush green forests. To avoid the heat and summer crowds, Gannan is a good option for both adults and kids. Explore diverse highland natural sceneries, including mountains, valleys, gorges, wetlands, and meadows. Experience cultural immersion by visiting Tibetan villages and temples. The Silk Road in August Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 23–33°C (73–91°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 17–33°C (63–91°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 19–29°C (66–84°F) August is suitable for visiting highland lakes and gorges, such as Heavenly Lake. Xinjiang's Ili is also a good option for its cool weather and stunning scenery. Ili's valleys come alive with lush greenery. The fields and meadows are carpeted with a rich tapestry of wildflowers and grasses, making it a good place for outdoor activities, such as hiking. Some indoor activities are also a good way to avoid the heat, such as visiting a cave workshop and trying to make a mini clay warrior when visiting Xi'an's famous Terracotta Army. The Silk Road in August • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 23–33°C (73–91°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 17–33°C (63–91°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 19–29°C (66–84°F) August is suitable for visiting highland lakes and gorges, such as Heavenly Lake. Xinjiang's Ili is also a good option for its cool weather and stunning scenery. Ili's valleys come alive with lush greenery. The fields and meadows are carpeted with a rich tapestry of wildflowers and grasses, making it a good place for outdoor activities, such as hiking. Some indoor activities are also a good way to avoid the heat, such as visiting a cave workshop and trying to make a mini clay warrior when visiting Xi'an's famous Terracotta Army. The Silk Road in September Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 18–27°C (64–81°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 10–28°C (50–82°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 13–23°C (55–73°F) September ushers in the autumn season along the Silk Road. It could be the best month for a balance of good weather and fewer crowds. September offers nice weather and fewer tourists compared to summer vacations and the Golden Week holiday in the first week of October. Everywhere is suitable to visit in such a nice month. The cooler weather makes outdoor exploration even more enjoyable, such as a trip to the desert or even camping out in the desert under the starry night sky. More September weather information: Silk Road Weather in September (Travel Tips for First-Timers) 15-Day Kunming–Dali–Lijiang–Chengdu–Jiuzhaigou–Dunhuang–Jiayuguan Classic Yunnan and Panda Tour The Silk Road in September • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 18–27°C (64–81°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 10–28°C (50–82°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 13–23°C (55–73°F) September ushers in the autumn season along the Silk Road. It could be the best month for a balance of good weather and fewer crowds. September offers nice weather and fewer tourists compared to summer vacations and the Golden Week holiday in the first week of October. Everywhere is suitable to visit in such a nice month. The cooler weather makes outdoor exploration even more enjoyable, such as a trip to the desert or even camping out in the desert under the starry night sky. More September weather information: Silk Road Weather in September (Travel Tips for First-Timers) 15-Day Kunming–Dali–Lijiang–Chengdu–Jiuzhaigou–Dunhuang–Jiayuguan Classic Yunnan and Panda Tour 15-Day Kunming–Dali–Lijiang–Chengdu–Jiuzhaigou–Dunhuang–Jiayuguan Classic Yunnan and Panda Tour 15-Day Kunming–Dali–Lijiang–Chengdu–Jiuzhaigou–Dunhuang–Jiayuguan Classic Yunnan and Panda Tour The Silk Road in October Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 12–21°C (54–70°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 2–20°C (36–68°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 5–14°C (41–57°F) October offers pleasant temperatures and vibrant fall foliage along the Silk Road. If you don't like big crowds, avoid the first week of the month. The golden Euphrates poplar forests in Inner Mongolia's Ejina Qi are at their best for viewing. October is also a good time to capture spectacular views of the Zhangye Danxia Landform under the clear sky. Visiting historic sites, old towns, deserts, and valleys is also ideal in October with its cool temperatures. More October weather information: Silk Road Weather in October (Travel Tips for First-Timers) 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour When Silk Road Culture Meets Fabulous Fall Colors The Silk Road in October • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 12–21°C (54–70°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: 2–20°C (36–68°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: 5–14°C (41–57°F) October offers pleasant temperatures and vibrant fall foliage along the Silk Road. If you don't like big crowds, avoid the first week of the month. The golden Euphrates poplar forests in Inner Mongolia's Ejina Qi are at their best for viewing. October is also a good time to capture spectacular views of the Zhangye Danxia Landform under the clear sky. Visiting historic sites, old towns, deserts, and valleys is also ideal in October with its cool temperatures. More October weather information: Silk Road Weather in October (Travel Tips for First-Timers) 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour When Silk Road Culture Meets Fabulous Fall Colors 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour When Silk Road Culture Meets Fabulous Fall Colors 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Qi Photography Tour When Silk Road Culture Meets Fabulous Fall Colors The Silk Road in November Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 4–13°C (39–55°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: -6–9°C (21–48°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -5–3°C (23–37°F) The Silk Road is already getting a little chilly in November, especially in western areas (Xinjiang). Only some outdoor activities are suitable. Some of the usually-crowded tourist spots become quiet. Explore the stunning ancient Buddhist sculptures and murals in Dunhuang's Mogao Caves and copy a sample mural on a mud slab with your own hands. Xinjiang shows its simplicity and uniqueness in the late autumn when there are fewer people. Visit ancient towns, lively bazaars, mosques, and museums. 20-Day Chengdu–Leshan–Chongqing–Lhasa–Lanzhou–Dunhuang–Zhangye–Tianshui–Shanghai Classic China Culture and Natural Beauty Tour The Silk Road in November • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: 4–13°C (39–55°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: -6–9°C (21–48°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -5–3°C (23–37°F) The Silk Road is already getting a little chilly in November, especially in western areas (Xinjiang). Only some outdoor activities are suitable. Some of the usually-crowded tourist spots become quiet. Explore the stunning ancient Buddhist sculptures and murals in Dunhuang's Mogao Caves and copy a sample mural on a mud slab with your own hands. Xinjiang shows its simplicity and uniqueness in the late autumn when there are fewer people. Visit ancient towns, lively bazaars, mosques, and museums. 20-Day Chengdu–Leshan–Chongqing–Lhasa–Lanzhou–Dunhuang–Zhangye–Tianshui–Shanghai Classic China Culture and Natural Beauty Tour 20-Day Chengdu–Leshan–Chongqing–Lhasa–Lanzhou–Dunhuang–Zhangye–Tianshui–Shanghai Classic China Culture and Natural Beauty Tour 20-Day Chengdu–Leshan–Chongqing–Lhasa–Lanzhou–Dunhuang–Zhangye–Tianshui–Shanghai Classic China Culture and Natural Beauty Tour The Silk Road in December Xi'an's average daily temperature range: -2–7°C (28–45°F) Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: -13–1°C (9–34°F) Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -13–-5°C (9–23°F) December brings very cold weather and occasional snowfall in the Silk Road cities. Kanas in Xinjiang is a great place to enjoy snowy landscapes. Natural snowfall provides excellent conditions for Xinjiang's ski resorts. Historical sites along the Silk Road in December present a quiet and solemn façade in winter. In the markets and on the streets, there are many more local residents than tourists. The Silk Road in December • Xi'an's average daily temperature range: -2–7°C (28–45°F) • Dunhuang's average daily temperature range: -13–1°C (9–34°F) • Urumqi's average daily temperature range: -13–-5°C (9–23°F) December brings very cold weather and occasional snowfall in the Silk Road cities. Kanas in Xinjiang is a great place to enjoy snowy landscapes. Natural snowfall provides excellent conditions for Xinjiang's ski resorts. Historical sites along the Silk Road in December present a quiet and solemn façade in winter. In the markets and on the streets, there are many more local residents than tourists. Recommended Silk Road Tours All of our tours can be adjusted or customized based on your requirements. Just contact us if you have a good idea of what you want to do. You could also start from one of our popular Silk Road itineraries: • 10-Day Lanzhou–Xiahe–Zhangye–Dunhuang–Turpan–Urumqi Tour • 21-Day Silk Road Tour from China to Central Asia • 7-Day Xinjiang Highlights Tour