ID: 78d59379cb3aebd8
Title: Transfer Between Beijing Airports/Train Stations & Your Hotel
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/beijing/beijing-airport-hotel-private-transfer.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Our Beijing local travel agency provide a safe, reliable, fast, and comfortable airports transfer (including Beijing Capital Intl Airport, Daxing Intl Airport) and train stations transfer service, with 24/7 customer service. We assist with hotel and airport staff communication, and are experienced in dealing with unforeseen circumstances such as lost luggage tracing, visa problems, etc. Choose us and make a good start to your China trip! Transfer Types Our Vehicle Fleet Service Details (Take Beijing Capital International Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Warm and polite driver Airport Information Desk Beijing Capital International Airport Map Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On Service At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the hotel in hutong or airbnb, our driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because the lane of hutong is too narrow to drive, and normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Your driver will help you with luggage Service Price (USD/One Way/Per Person) Transfer Types 1 Pax 2 Pax 3 Pax 4-7 Pax 8-9 Pax 10-15 Pax Capital Airport PEK - Your Hotel $46 $23 $20 $16 $12 $12 Daxing Airport PKX - Your Hotel $62 $32 $26 $20 $20 $20 Train Station - Your Hotel $43 $22 $19 $15 $12 $10 Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX) (photo source from Baidu) Important Notes: This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. Our Beijing local travel agency provide a safe, reliable, fast, and comfortable airports transfer (including Beijing Capital Intl Airport, Daxing Intl Airport) and train stations transfer service, with 24/7 customer service. We assist with hotel and airport staff communication, and are experienced in dealing with unforeseen circumstances such as lost luggage tracing, visa problems, etc. Choose us and make a good start to your China trip! Our Beijing local travel agency provide a safe, reliable, fast, and comfortable airports transfer (including Beijing Capital Intl Airport, Daxing Intl Airport) and train stations transfer service, with 24/7 customer service. We assist with hotel and airport staff communication, and are experienced in dealing with unforeseen circumstances such as lost luggage tracing, visa problems, etc. Choose us and make a good start to your China trip! Service Details (Take Beijing Capital International Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Warm and polite driver Airport Information Desk Beijing Capital International Airport Map Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On Service At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the hotel in hutong or airbnb, our driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because the lane of hutong is too narrow to drive, and normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Your driver will help you with luggage Service Details (Take Beijing Capital International Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Warm and polite driver Airport Information Desk Beijing Capital International Airport Map Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On Service At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the hotel in hutong or airbnb, our driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because the lane of hutong is too narrow to drive, and normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Your driver will help you with luggage On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Warm and polite driver Airport Information Desk Beijing Capital International Airport Map Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver Upon arrival, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Warm and polite driver Airport Information Desk Beijing Capital International Airport Map Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Upon arrival, you will be greeted by our driver holding a China Highlights / Trippest's sign with your name and wait at the exit of the luggage claim hall. If you are unable to see our driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: • Go to the information desk opposite the terminal exit (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. • Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Warm and polite driver Airport Information Desk Beijing Capital International Airport Map • Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. • Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On Service At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the hotel in hutong or airbnb, our driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because the lane of hutong is too narrow to drive, and normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Your driver will help you with luggage At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the hotel in hutong or airbnb, our driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because the lane of hutong is too narrow to drive, and normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Your driver will help you with luggage At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. But if you book the hotel in hutong or airbnb, our driver might not be able to drop you off at the door. Because the lane of hutong is too narrow to drive, and normally airbnb is in a community where enforces the separation of pedestrians and vehicles. Your driver will help you with luggage Service Price (USD/One Way/Per Person) Transfer Types 1 Pax 2 Pax 3 Pax 4-7 Pax 8-9 Pax 10-15 Pax Capital Airport PEK - Your Hotel $46 $23 $20 $16 $12 $12 Daxing Airport PKX - Your Hotel $62 $32 $26 $20 $20 $20 Train Station - Your Hotel $43 $22 $19 $15 $12 $10 Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX) (photo source from Baidu) Service Price (USD/One Way/Per Person) Transfer Types 1 Pax 2 Pax 3 Pax 4-7 Pax 8-9 Pax 10-15 Pax Capital Airport PEK - Your Hotel $46 $23 $20 $16 $12 $12 Daxing Airport PKX - Your Hotel $62 $32 $26 $20 $20 $20 Train Station - Your Hotel $43 $22 $19 $15 $12 $10 Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX) (photo source from Baidu) Important Notes: This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. • This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. FAQs About This Tour What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Beijing? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the fourth ring road of Beijing. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the major airports and train stations in Beijing: Airports: Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK), Beijing Daxing Airport (PKX) Train Stations: Beijing Railway Station (Main), Beijing Xi (West) Railway Station, Beijing Nan (South) Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. Flights monitor APP What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Beijing? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the fourth ring road of Beijing. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the major airports and train stations in Beijing: Airports: Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK), Beijing Daxing Airport (PKX) Train Stations: Beijing Railway Station (Main), Beijing Xi (West) Railway Station, Beijing Nan (South) Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Beijing? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the fourth ring road of Beijing. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the major airports and train stations in Beijing: Airports: Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK), Beijing Daxing Airport (PKX) Train Stations: Beijing Railway Station (Main), Beijing Xi (West) Railway Station, Beijing Nan (South) Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the fourth ring road of Beijing. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the major airports and train stations in Beijing: • Airports: Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK), Beijing Daxing Airport (PKX) • Train Stations: Beijing Railway Station (Main), Beijing Xi (West) Railway Station, Beijing Nan (South) Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. Flights monitor APP What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. Flights monitor APP You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different Careful and reliable Your driver will be arranged when you confirm with us. Then you can check the contact information of him before your departure. Safe and comfortable Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Beijing tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. Experienced, friendly and helpful We are experienced in dealing with unforeseen circumstances such as lost luggage tracing, visa problems, etc. Our drivers are friendly, enthusiastic and are ready to help! Feel free to let us know if you need any help. Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service We are based in Beijing with more than 50 local staffs to solve your problems on the spot: Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District What Makes Us Different Careful and reliable Your driver will be arranged when you confirm with us. Then you can check the contact information of him before your departure. Your driver will be arranged when you confirm with us. Then you can check the contact information of him before your departure. Your driver will be arranged when you confirm with us. Then you can check the contact information of him before your departure. Safe and comfortable Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Beijing tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Beijing tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Beijing tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. Experienced, friendly and helpful We are experienced in dealing with unforeseen circumstances such as lost luggage tracing, visa problems, etc. Our drivers are friendly, enthusiastic and are ready to help! Feel free to let us know if you need any help. Experienced, friendly and helpful We are experienced in dealing with unforeseen circumstances such as lost luggage tracing, visa problems, etc. Our drivers are friendly, enthusiastic and are ready to help! Feel free to let us know if you need any help. We are experienced in dealing with unforeseen circumstances such as lost luggage tracing, visa problems, etc. Our drivers are friendly, enthusiastic and are ready to help! Feel free to let us know if you need any help. Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service We are based in Beijing with more than 50 local staffs to solve your problems on the spot: Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service We are based in Beijing with more than 50 local staffs to solve your problems on the spot: Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District We are based in Beijing with more than 50 local staffs to solve your problems on the spot: • Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) • Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 22 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Beijing Capital International Airport to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Beijing Capital International Airport Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Beijing Daxing International Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Beijing Daxing International Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 22 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Beijing Capital International Airport to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Beijing Capital International Airport Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Beijing Daxing International Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Beijing Daxing International Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 22 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Beijing Capital International Airport to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Beijing Capital International Airport Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Beijing Daxing International Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Beijing Daxing International Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Beijing Capital International Airport to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Train Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Beijing Capital International Airport Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Train Station Private Arrival Transfer: Beijing Daxing International Airport to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Beijing Daxing International Airport No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20