ID: 699c0aceba140b5a
Title: Best (and Worst) Times to Visit Shanghai: Tips for All Months
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/shanghai/best-time-to-visit.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Shanghai has a humid subtropical climate with four distinct seasons. Winters are cold and temperatures sometimes drop below zero. Snow seldom falls. In contrast, summers tend to be hot and humid. To avoid the heat of summer and the cold of winter, spring (March to May) and autumn (September to November) are the best times for traveling in Shanghai. In the following article, we will provide recommendations for activities to explore for each month and travel tips. • Best Times for Weather • Best Times for Family Trips • Best Times for Low Prices • The Worst Times • Guide by Month The Best Times to Visit Shanghai for Good Weather The best times to visit Shanghai for good weather are spring (March to May) and autumn (September to November). The weather in Shanghai during the spring and autumn seasons is neither cold nor hot, making it suitable for various outdoor activities. From March to May, the spring is warm and flowers are in bloom, making it a great time for outings and enjoying the scenery. In the autumn, the weather is pleasantly cool and refreshing, with the fragrance of osmanthus flowers in the air. The Best Times to Visit Shanghai for Family Travel The period with the best weather is certainly ideal for family travel, but many families cannot travel at this time due to their children's school schedules. Therefore, apart from the spring and autumn seasons, a suitable time for families is from June to August, during the summer vacation. Within this period, considering the impact of the rainy season, July and August are slightly less rainy months. Especially for active children, there are many opportunities for outdoor activities and sightseeing, such as going to Shanghai Disneyland, embarking on a food tour, exploring nearby water towns, or taking a ride in a vintage sidecar to explore the city. However, if you prefer fewer crowds, June might be more suitable, although there are one or two more rainy days during that month. Fortunately, Shanghai offers a rich array of indoor experiential activities, such as a cooking class where you and your children could try making local delicacies like steamed buns, enjoying acrobatic performances, and visiting the Shanghai Gallery of Antique Music Box and Mechanical Works. Feel free to contact us and we'll tailor-make your own unique family trip itinerary. Our consultants would make recommendations and arrangements that balance the interests of your family members. For more tips, see How to Plan a Family Trip to China. 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders The Best Time to Visit Shanghai for Low Prices December to February is the off-season in Shanghai. Hotel prices are relatively low and there are fewer crowds except for in late December because of the Christmas and New Year celebrations. When booking with us, you would receive a 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights if you cancel up to 3 weeks before departure. (See more on our cancelation policy.) We could solve the problem of planning a complex trip in an unfamiliar region for you, saving you time and effort while ensuring that your travel needs and desires are met. Just contact us to book a tour by telling us your requirements. 2-Week Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Guilin, Xian, and Beijing Tour Touch Chinese Elegance 2-Week Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Guilin, Xian, and Beijing Tour Touch Chinese Elegance 2-Week Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Guilin, Xian, and Beijing Tour Touch Chinese Elegance The Worst Times to Visit Shanghai If you have a flexible schedule and prioritize weather conditions, traveling to Shanghai in the rainy season is less recommended. Summer, usually from June to August, is the rainy season in Shanghai. June sees more rainy days, while July and August are characterized by frequent showers. As Shanghai is close to the sea, it may be affected by typhoons, particularly in August and September, very occasionally leading to strong winds and heavy rainfall. This may result in flight delays or cancelations. Nevertheless, if you have to travel during this period, it is feasible. By monitoring weather forecasts, maintaining flexibility, and our professional guides and advisors who can help address any issues that arise, your trip can still be enjoyable and smooth. Shanghai Travel Guide by Month • January • February • August • September • October • November • December Shanghai in January Average daily temperature range: 3–9°C (37–48°F) Average rainy days: 9 Average sunny days: 16 Located in the south, Shanghai rarely falls below zero in January. There is little chance of snow. You won't need to wear too much to hang out, especially on a sunny day. This makes it ideal for leisurely city sightseeing, such as taking a relaxed city walking tour. Additionally, you won't want to miss the opportunity to discover peaceful winter oases, such as the enchanting Yu Garden. See more on Shanghai Weather in January. • Average daily temperature range: 3–9°C (37–48°F) • Average rainy days: 9 • Average sunny days: 16 Located in the south, Shanghai rarely falls below zero in January. There is little chance of snow. You won't need to wear too much to hang out, especially on a sunny day. This makes it ideal for leisurely city sightseeing, such as taking a relaxed city walking tour. Additionally, you won't want to miss the opportunity to discover peaceful winter oases, such as the enchanting Yu Garden. See more on Shanghai Weather in January. Shanghai in February Average daily temperature range: 4–10°C (39–50°F) Average rainy days: 9 Average sunny days: 19 February remains chilly in Shanghai, but it's a fantastic time to immerse yourself in the rich Chinese New Year festivities. The famous Yu Garden and its nearby bazaars are adorned with colorful decorations. You won't want to miss the traditional dragon and lion dances. See more on Shanghai Weather in February. • Average daily temperature range: 4–10°C (39–50°F) • Average rainy days: 9 • Average sunny days: 19 February remains chilly in Shanghai, but it's a fantastic time to immerse yourself in the rich Chinese New Year festivities. The famous Yu Garden and its nearby bazaars are adorned with colorful decorations. You won't want to miss the traditional dragon and lion dances. See more on Shanghai Weather in February. Shanghai in March Average daily temperature range: 8–16°C (46–61°F) Average rainy days: 9 Average sunny days: 22 March marks the transition to spring in Shanghai. The weather starts to warm up, making it a pleasant time to visit. Cherry blossoms begin to bloom in parks, such as Gucun Park. You could take a stroll along the Bund and enjoy the city's iconic skyline without the summer crowds. See more on Shanghai Weather in March. • Average daily temperature range: 8–16°C (46–61°F) • Average rainy days: 9 • Average sunny days: 22 March marks the transition to spring in Shanghai. The weather starts to warm up, making it a pleasant time to visit. Cherry blossoms begin to bloom in parks, such as Gucun Park. You could take a stroll along the Bund and enjoy the city's iconic skyline without the summer crowds. See more on Shanghai Weather in March. Shanghai in April Average daily temperature range: 14–22°C (57–72°F) Average rainy days: 10 Average sunny days: 20 April brings the full bloom of spring to Shanghai. The city's parks burst with colorful flowers and the weather becomes increasingly comfortable. It's an excellent time for outdoor activities. You could explore Zhujiajiao Water Town, go to Yu Garden to appreciate the elegance of Chinese classical gardens, or take a Huangpu River cruise for a trip through time as you see colonial buildings and skyscrapers along the side. See more on Shanghai Weather in April. • Average daily temperature range: 14–22°C (57–72°F) • Average rainy days: 10 • Average sunny days: 20 April brings the full bloom of spring to Shanghai. The city's parks burst with colorful flowers and the weather becomes increasingly comfortable. It's an excellent time for outdoor activities. You could explore Zhujiajiao Water Town, go to Yu Garden to appreciate the elegance of Chinese classical gardens, or take a Huangpu River cruise for a trip through time as you see colonial buildings and skyscrapers along the side. See more on Shanghai Weather in April. Shanghai in May Average daily temperature range: 19–27°C (66–81°F) Average rainy days: 10 Average sunny days: 21 May is the start of the warm and humid season in Shanghai. While the weather is pleasant, it can get quite hot and humid toward the end of the month. It's a great time to explore the city's gardens, such as Yu Garden, or take a cruise along the Huangpu River to admire the city's glittering skyline. The first week of May is China's golden week of tourism. Be prepared to book in advance if you plan to travel during this period. See more on Shanghai Weather in May. 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm • Average daily temperature range: 19–27°C (66–81°F) • Average rainy days: 10 • Average sunny days: 21 May is the start of the warm and humid season in Shanghai. While the weather is pleasant, it can get quite hot and humid toward the end of the month. It's a great time to explore the city's gardens, such as Yu Garden, or take a cruise along the Huangpu River to admire the city's glittering skyline. The first week of May is China's golden week of tourism. Be prepared to book in advance if you plan to travel during this period. See more on Shanghai Weather in May. 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm Shanghai in June Average daily temperature range: 23–29°C (73–84°F) Average rainy days: 13 Average sunny days: 17 June brings the beginning of summer in Shanghai, with warmer temperatures and higher humidity levels. You could consider visiting water towns, such as Zhujiajiao, or exploring the city's many museums, such as the Shanghai Museum or the Power Station of Art, to escape the heat. See more on Shanghai Weather in June. • Average daily temperature range: 23–29°C (73–84°F) • Average rainy days: 13 • Average sunny days: 17 June brings the beginning of summer in Shanghai, with warmer temperatures and higher humidity levels. You could consider visiting water towns, such as Zhujiajiao, or exploring the city's many museums, such as the Shanghai Museum or the Power Station of Art, to escape the heat. See more on Shanghai Weather in June. Shanghai in July Average daily temperature range: 28–35°C (82–95°F) Average rainy days: 10 Average sunny days: 21 July is the height of summer in Shanghai, with hot and humid weather. Some outdoor explorations, such as a visit to Yu Garden, could be arranged for the morning or an hour or two before sunset. The night view of Shanghai's Bund is well worth seeing. Instead of enjoying the night view among the crowds, we have selected a hotel on the Bund with an open-air bar, where you could enjoy the exclusive night view with a glass of wine at the hotel. To beat the heat, you could visit indoor attractions, such as Shanghai Ocean Aquarium, or take a day trip to nearby Suzhou, which is known for its classical Chinese gardens. See more on How to Plan a Summer Trip to China. See more on Shanghai Weather in July. • Average daily temperature range: 28–35°C (82–95°F) • Average rainy days: 10 • Average sunny days: 21 July is the height of summer in Shanghai, with hot and humid weather. Some outdoor explorations, such as a visit to Yu Garden, could be arranged for the morning or an hour or two before sunset. The night view of Shanghai's Bund is well worth seeing. Instead of enjoying the night view among the crowds, we have selected a hotel on the Bund with an open-air bar, where you could enjoy the exclusive night view with a glass of wine at the hotel. To beat the heat, you could visit indoor attractions, such as Shanghai Ocean Aquarium, or take a day trip to nearby Suzhou, which is known for its classical Chinese gardens. See more on How to Plan a Summer Trip to China. See more on Shanghai Weather in July. Shanghai in August Average daily temperature range: 27–34°C (81–93°F) Average rainy days: 11 Average sunny days: 20 August is still warm and humid, but it's also the time when local fruits are in season. You could explore Shanghai's food scene by trying fresh lychees, peaches, and other seasonal delights. An evening tour of bustling Shanghai in a private convertible jeep could be a nice option to avoid the daytime heat and also see how the city changes at night. Additionally, you could consider visiting nearby water towns, such as Tongli, for a taste of ancient Chinese culture. See more on Shanghai Weather in August. 13-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, ShanghaiChinese Language and Culture Immersion Tour • Average daily temperature range: 27–34°C (81–93°F) • Average rainy days: 11 • Average sunny days: 20 August is still warm and humid, but it's also the time when local fruits are in season. You could explore Shanghai's food scene by trying fresh lychees, peaches, and other seasonal delights. An evening tour of bustling Shanghai in a private convertible jeep could be a nice option to avoid the daytime heat and also see how the city changes at night. Additionally, you could consider visiting nearby water towns, such as Tongli, for a taste of ancient Chinese culture. See more on Shanghai Weather in August. 13-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, ShanghaiChinese Language and Culture Immersion Tour 13-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, ShanghaiChinese Language and Culture Immersion Tour 13-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, ShanghaiChinese Language and Culture Immersion Tour Shanghai in September Average daily temperature range: 23–29°C (73–84°F) Average rainy days: 10 Average sunny days: 20 September ushers in pleasant autumn weather, making it one of the best months to visit Shanghai. You could take advantage of the comfortable temperatures by exploring the city's historic neighborhoods, such as an in-depth Bund walking tour and a leisurely stroll in the French Concession. If you are interested in Shanghai's lesser-known history, you could visit a Jewish ghetto to learn about its origin. See more on Shanghai Weather in September. 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Yangtze River, and Shanghai Tour Majestic China Shanghai in September • Average daily temperature range: 23–29°C (73–84°F) • Average rainy days: 10 • Average sunny days: 20 September ushers in pleasant autumn weather, making it one of the best months to visit Shanghai. You could take advantage of the comfortable temperatures by exploring the city's historic neighborhoods, such as an in-depth Bund walking tour and a leisurely stroll in the French Concession. If you are interested in Shanghai's lesser-known history, you could visit a Jewish ghetto to learn about its origin. See more on Shanghai Weather in September. 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Yangtze River, and Shanghai Tour Majestic China 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Yangtze River, and Shanghai Tour Majestic China 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Yangtze River, and Shanghai Tour Majestic China Shanghai in October Average daily temperature range: 18–24°C (64–75°F) Average rainy days: 6 Average sunny days: 25 October is ideal for enjoying any activities in the city. You could take a stroll along the Bund and step into some old buildings to learn about Shanghai's history. If you like culture, you could also explore the quiet Jade Buddha Temple amid the bustling city. After the tour, you could have a rest in a quiet coffee shop nearby that provides jobs for people with autism. At night, you could take a Huangpu River cruise to admire the city's beautifully illuminated skyline accompanied by a gentle breeze. The first week of October is China's golden week of tourism. Be prepared to book in advance if you plan to travel during this period. See more on Shanghai Weather in October. 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Beautiful China with Holy Tibet • Average daily temperature range: 18–24°C (64–75°F) • Average rainy days: 6 • Average sunny days: 25 October is ideal for enjoying any activities in the city. You could take a stroll along the Bund and step into some old buildings to learn about Shanghai's history. If you like culture, you could also explore the quiet Jade Buddha Temple amid the bustling city. After the tour, you could have a rest in a quiet coffee shop nearby that provides jobs for people with autism. At night, you could take a Huangpu River cruise to admire the city's beautifully illuminated skyline accompanied by a gentle breeze. The first week of October is China's golden week of tourism. Be prepared to book in advance if you plan to travel during this period. See more on Shanghai Weather in October. 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Beautiful China with Holy Tibet Shanghai in November Average daily temperature range: 12–18°C (54–64°F) Average rainy days: 9 Average sunny days: 21 November brings cooler temperatures to Shanghai, making it an excellent time for urban exploration. You could wander through the charming streets of the former French Concession, visit the historic Jade Buddha Temple, or take a day trip to the water towns of Xitang or Wuzhen. See more on Shanghai Weather in November. 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery • Average daily temperature range: 12–18°C (54–64°F) • Average rainy days: 9 • Average sunny days: 21 November brings cooler temperatures to Shanghai, making it an excellent time for urban exploration. You could wander through the charming streets of the former French Concession, visit the historic Jade Buddha Temple, or take a day trip to the water towns of Xitang or Wuzhen. See more on Shanghai Weather in November. 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery Shanghai in December Average daily temperature range: 5–11°C (41–52°F) Average rainy days: 6 Average sunny days: 25 December in Shanghai is cool and crisp, and the city begins to decorate for the upcoming Christmas and New Year celebrations. You could explore the festive atmosphere along the shopping street called Nanjing Road and enjoy traditional hot pot meals to stay warm. You could consider a day trip to Hangzhou for its scenic West Lake. See more on Shanghai Weather in December. 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour • Average daily temperature range: 5–11°C (41–52°F) • Average rainy days: 6 • Average sunny days: 25 December in Shanghai is cool and crisp, and the city begins to decorate for the upcoming Christmas and New Year celebrations. You could explore the festive atmosphere along the shopping street called Nanjing Road and enjoy traditional hot pot meals to stay warm. You could consider a day trip to Hangzhou for its scenic West Lake. See more on Shanghai Weather in December. 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour Recommended China Tours All of our tours can be adjusted or customized based on your requirements. Just contact us. See some of our popular itineraries, for inspiration: • 14-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Chengdu–Chongqing–Xiamen–Shanghai Tour • How to Spend a Night in Shanghai: Top 10 Things to Do • Ultimate Shanghai Itineraries: How Long to Spend in Shanghai • The Top 10 Ancient Water Towns Near Shanghai • How to Plan a Day Trip in Shanghai • Top 8 Places You Should Visit in China in Summer