ID: 47a041281bc7aaf6
Title: Two-Day Xi'an Panoramic Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/xian/2-day-xian-panoramic-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ From the amazing Terra-cotta Warriors and the mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang to the large Han Yang Ling Mausoleum of Emperor Jindi of Han Dynasty and his Empress, from the local life of Xi'an citizens to Chinese traditional culture and arts, from street snacks to selected Xi'an local's favorite dishes, in these two days exploration you'll have a panoramic view of this imperial city of Xi'an on its glorious history, traditional culture, authentic food and the real life of the people that would never be discovered by a typical tourist. Tour Highlights Make full use of your time to deeply discover all the top highlights and charm of the city in two days: from the world famous Terra-cotta Warriors to the Hanyang Mausoleum, from the official Xi'an Museum to the Buddhist Small Wild Goose Pagoda, from the street snacks to the selected local dishes. Maximum your travel experience: Skip the lines as VIP guests, no tourist shopping, equipped with telescope and FM headset to make sure you can see and hear clearly. With our professional guide, you'll discover the vivid stories and history behind the historical relics that few people have ever heard of. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car (max: 7 seats) with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All Day 1：One-Day VIP Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Discovery (City Wall & Muslim Street) Tour Visit Xi'an Terra Cotta Warriors Museum and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang in the morning, having lunch at a local restaurant and then walking, biking, or taking an Eco-Car to visit Xi'an Ancient City Wall, visit the Most Famous Food Street of Xi'an - Muslim Street. Today you'll discover the most highlights of Xi'an! >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Day 2：Visit Hanyangling Mausoleum, Small Wild Goose Pagoda and Xi'an Museum Xi'an has more than Terra Cotta Warriors! In this day, you'll visit the Han Yang Ling Mausoleum where the emperor Jingdi of Han Dynasty and his empress buried with lots of valuable funeral objects. Then you'll have the chance to take a close look at the procedure of the relics restoration in their laboratory which is not opened to public. In the afternoon, you'll visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda, built in the 7th century to house the Buddhist materials that the great monk Yi Jing returned from India. At last you'll visit the Xi'an Museum where contains the various treasures of ancient China. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. 7:30 AM – 11:00 AMHotel pick-up and drive to Hanyangling Mausoleum The same as your previous day, your guide will be waiting for you at your hotel lobby at the appointed time (around 7:30 AM - 8 AM) and pick you up to our first destination: Hanyangling Mausoleum. It takes about 40 minutes to drive there. This museum has an underground exhibition hall so that people can see the results of the archeological digs in the big mausoleum complex of Emperor Jingdi (also named Liu Qi, 188 to 141 BC) of the Han Dynasty, his wife, officials, dynastic clan members, and commoners. There is also a graveyard for slaves who built the complex. The underground hall was opened in 2006. The archeological dig site only covers a small area, but the whole burial complex is immense. It covers a total area of about 10 square kilometers or 4 square miles. Good to Know: You will have chance to watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress. Usually it is Chinese version and it would be difficult to understand for English-speaking visitors. As our VIP guests, we will negotiate with the museum manager for an English version movie for you. Hanyangling Mausoleum Watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMHave lunch at A Local Restaurant (Not Included) Having lunch at a selected local restaurant. You will have chance to taste the most featured Shaanxi local food. Featured Shaanxi local lunch 1:30 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda Afterwards, you will be transferred to the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. It was built in 707 AD. The story goes that when the great monk Yi Jing returned from India, the birthplace of Buddhism, and appealed to the imperial court for funds to build a pagoda to preserve the holy Buddhist scriptures. Inside Jianfu Temple, there is a huge iron bell, which dates back to the Jin Dynasty (1192 AD). Nowadays, tourists can still ring the bell there to pray for blessings(Included). Ringing the bell at Small Wild Goose Pagoda 3:30 PM – 5:00 PMVisit the Xi'an Museum At last, we will visit Xian Museum. It was opened to the public in May 2017 that is next to Small Wilde Goose Pagoda. It's a great place to learn about the development of this ancient city. The main exhibition hall’s theme is named “The Ancient Capital Xi'an”. Visitors can learn all about Xi’an’s thousand-year history and subsequent development. The exhibits in the museum show the progression of the development of Xi’an City from the Zhou Dynasty to the Ming and Qing Dynasties. There is also a model of Xi’an City throughout various dynastic periods that allows you to see the scale, layout and living conditions of the city’s distant past. 5:00 PM – 5:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Xi'an panoramic tour with China Highlights. Tip notes: Tip your guide and driver is not a compulsory requirement but would be a great affirmation of their services. Therefore, we suggest you to give your guide and driver 60 – 100 yuan per person as this would be a great encouragement for them. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Admission to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the third ring road of Xi'an). Private English-speaking local guide. Price Excludes: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually 50 - 100 RMB per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Important Notes: The peak season includes the following dates: China National Day: 01/Oct - 07/Oct. Chinese Spring Festival. Other dates are indicated as shoulder season. Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance, there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. From the amazing Terra-cotta Warriors and the mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang to the large Han Yang Ling Mausoleum of Emperor Jindi of Han Dynasty and his Empress, from the local life of Xi'an citizens to Chinese traditional culture and arts, from street snacks to selected Xi'an local's favorite dishes, in these two days exploration you'll have a panoramic view of this imperial city of Xi'an on its glorious history, traditional culture, authentic food and the real life of the people that would never be discovered by a typical tourist. From the amazing Terra-cotta Warriors and the mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang to the large Han Yang Ling Mausoleum of Emperor Jindi of Han Dynasty and his Empress, from the local life of Xi'an citizens to Chinese traditional culture and arts, from street snacks to selected Xi'an local's favorite dishes, in these two days exploration you'll have a panoramic view of this imperial city of Xi'an on its glorious history, traditional culture, authentic food and the real life of the people that would never be discovered by a typical tourist. Tour Highlights Make full use of your time to deeply discover all the top highlights and charm of the city in two days: from the world famous Terra-cotta Warriors to the Hanyang Mausoleum, from the official Xi'an Museum to the Buddhist Small Wild Goose Pagoda, from the street snacks to the selected local dishes. Maximum your travel experience: Skip the lines as VIP guests, no tourist shopping, equipped with telescope and FM headset to make sure you can see and hear clearly. With our professional guide, you'll discover the vivid stories and history behind the historical relics that few people have ever heard of. • Make full use of your time to deeply discover all the top highlights and charm of the city in two days: from the world famous Terra-cotta Warriors to the Hanyang Mausoleum, from the official Xi'an Museum to the Buddhist Small Wild Goose Pagoda, from the street snacks to the selected local dishes. • Maximum your travel experience: Skip the lines as VIP guests, no tourist shopping, equipped with telescope and FM headset to make sure you can see and hear clearly. • With our professional guide, you'll discover the vivid stories and history behind the historical relics that few people have ever heard of. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car (max: 7 seats) with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. The Design of the Day Trip • Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English • Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience • Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car (max: 7 seats) with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space • Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice • Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All Day 1：One-Day VIP Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Discovery (City Wall & Muslim Street) Tour Visit Xi'an Terra Cotta Warriors Museum and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang in the morning, having lunch at a local restaurant and then walking, biking, or taking an Eco-Car to visit Xi'an Ancient City Wall, visit the Most Famous Food Street of Xi'an - Muslim Street. Today you'll discover the most highlights of Xi'an! >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Day 2：Visit Hanyangling Mausoleum, Small Wild Goose Pagoda and Xi'an Museum Xi'an has more than Terra Cotta Warriors! In this day, you'll visit the Han Yang Ling Mausoleum where the emperor Jingdi of Han Dynasty and his empress buried with lots of valuable funeral objects. Then you'll have the chance to take a close look at the procedure of the relics restoration in their laboratory which is not opened to public. In the afternoon, you'll visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda, built in the 7th century to house the Buddhist materials that the great monk Yi Jing returned from India. At last you'll visit the Xi'an Museum where contains the various treasures of ancient China. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. 7:30 AM – 11:00 AMHotel pick-up and drive to Hanyangling Mausoleum The same as your previous day, your guide will be waiting for you at your hotel lobby at the appointed time (around 7:30 AM - 8 AM) and pick you up to our first destination: Hanyangling Mausoleum. It takes about 40 minutes to drive there. This museum has an underground exhibition hall so that people can see the results of the archeological digs in the big mausoleum complex of Emperor Jingdi (also named Liu Qi, 188 to 141 BC) of the Han Dynasty, his wife, officials, dynastic clan members, and commoners. There is also a graveyard for slaves who built the complex. The underground hall was opened in 2006. The archeological dig site only covers a small area, but the whole burial complex is immense. It covers a total area of about 10 square kilometers or 4 square miles. Good to Know: You will have chance to watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress. Usually it is Chinese version and it would be difficult to understand for English-speaking visitors. As our VIP guests, we will negotiate with the museum manager for an English version movie for you. Hanyangling Mausoleum Watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMHave lunch at A Local Restaurant (Not Included) Having lunch at a selected local restaurant. You will have chance to taste the most featured Shaanxi local food. Featured Shaanxi local lunch 1:30 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda Afterwards, you will be transferred to the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. It was built in 707 AD. The story goes that when the great monk Yi Jing returned from India, the birthplace of Buddhism, and appealed to the imperial court for funds to build a pagoda to preserve the holy Buddhist scriptures. Inside Jianfu Temple, there is a huge iron bell, which dates back to the Jin Dynasty (1192 AD). Nowadays, tourists can still ring the bell there to pray for blessings(Included). Ringing the bell at Small Wild Goose Pagoda 3:30 PM – 5:00 PMVisit the Xi'an Museum At last, we will visit Xian Museum. It was opened to the public in May 2017 that is next to Small Wilde Goose Pagoda. It's a great place to learn about the development of this ancient city. The main exhibition hall’s theme is named “The Ancient Capital Xi'an”. Visitors can learn all about Xi’an’s thousand-year history and subsequent development. The exhibits in the museum show the progression of the development of Xi’an City from the Zhou Dynasty to the Ming and Qing Dynasties. There is also a model of Xi’an City throughout various dynastic periods that allows you to see the scale, layout and living conditions of the city’s distant past. 5:00 PM – 5:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Xi'an panoramic tour with China Highlights. Tip notes: Tip your guide and driver is not a compulsory requirement but would be a great affirmation of their services. Therefore, we suggest you to give your guide and driver 60 – 100 yuan per person as this would be a great encouragement for them. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Close All Day 1：One-Day VIP Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Discovery (City Wall & Muslim Street) Tour Visit Xi'an Terra Cotta Warriors Museum and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang in the morning, having lunch at a local restaurant and then walking, biking, or taking an Eco-Car to visit Xi'an Ancient City Wall, visit the Most Famous Food Street of Xi'an - Muslim Street. Today you'll discover the most highlights of Xi'an! >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Day 2：Visit Hanyangling Mausoleum, Small Wild Goose Pagoda and Xi'an Museum Xi'an has more than Terra Cotta Warriors! In this day, you'll visit the Han Yang Ling Mausoleum where the emperor Jingdi of Han Dynasty and his empress buried with lots of valuable funeral objects. Then you'll have the chance to take a close look at the procedure of the relics restoration in their laboratory which is not opened to public. In the afternoon, you'll visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda, built in the 7th century to house the Buddhist materials that the great monk Yi Jing returned from India. At last you'll visit the Xi'an Museum where contains the various treasures of ancient China. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. 7:30 AM – 11:00 AMHotel pick-up and drive to Hanyangling Mausoleum The same as your previous day, your guide will be waiting for you at your hotel lobby at the appointed time (around 7:30 AM - 8 AM) and pick you up to our first destination: Hanyangling Mausoleum. It takes about 40 minutes to drive there. This museum has an underground exhibition hall so that people can see the results of the archeological digs in the big mausoleum complex of Emperor Jingdi (also named Liu Qi, 188 to 141 BC) of the Han Dynasty, his wife, officials, dynastic clan members, and commoners. There is also a graveyard for slaves who built the complex. The underground hall was opened in 2006. The archeological dig site only covers a small area, but the whole burial complex is immense. It covers a total area of about 10 square kilometers or 4 square miles. Good to Know: You will have chance to watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress. Usually it is Chinese version and it would be difficult to understand for English-speaking visitors. As our VIP guests, we will negotiate with the museum manager for an English version movie for you. Hanyangling Mausoleum Watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMHave lunch at A Local Restaurant (Not Included) Having lunch at a selected local restaurant. You will have chance to taste the most featured Shaanxi local food. Featured Shaanxi local lunch 1:30 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda Afterwards, you will be transferred to the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. It was built in 707 AD. The story goes that when the great monk Yi Jing returned from India, the birthplace of Buddhism, and appealed to the imperial court for funds to build a pagoda to preserve the holy Buddhist scriptures. Inside Jianfu Temple, there is a huge iron bell, which dates back to the Jin Dynasty (1192 AD). Nowadays, tourists can still ring the bell there to pray for blessings(Included). Ringing the bell at Small Wild Goose Pagoda 3:30 PM – 5:00 PMVisit the Xi'an Museum At last, we will visit Xian Museum. It was opened to the public in May 2017 that is next to Small Wilde Goose Pagoda. It's a great place to learn about the development of this ancient city. The main exhibition hall’s theme is named “The Ancient Capital Xi'an”. Visitors can learn all about Xi’an’s thousand-year history and subsequent development. The exhibits in the museum show the progression of the development of Xi’an City from the Zhou Dynasty to the Ming and Qing Dynasties. There is also a model of Xi’an City throughout various dynastic periods that allows you to see the scale, layout and living conditions of the city’s distant past. 5:00 PM – 5:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Xi'an panoramic tour with China Highlights. Tip notes: Tip your guide and driver is not a compulsory requirement but would be a great affirmation of their services. Therefore, we suggest you to give your guide and driver 60 – 100 yuan per person as this would be a great encouragement for them. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Day 1：One-Day VIP Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Discovery (City Wall & Muslim Street) Tour Visit Xi'an Terra Cotta Warriors Museum and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang in the morning, having lunch at a local restaurant and then walking, biking, or taking an Eco-Car to visit Xi'an Ancient City Wall, visit the Most Famous Food Street of Xi'an - Muslim Street. Today you'll discover the most highlights of Xi'an! >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Day 1：One-Day VIP Xi'an Terracotta Warriors and City Discovery (City Wall & Muslim Street) Tour Visit Xi'an Terra Cotta Warriors Museum and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang in the morning, having lunch at a local restaurant and then walking, biking, or taking an Eco-Car to visit Xi'an Ancient City Wall, visit the Most Famous Food Street of Xi'an - Muslim Street. Today you'll discover the most highlights of Xi'an! >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Visit Xi'an Terra Cotta Warriors Museum and the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang in the morning, having lunch at a local restaurant and then walking, biking, or taking an Eco-Car to visit Xi'an Ancient City Wall, visit the Most Famous Food Street of Xi'an - Muslim Street. Today you'll discover the most highlights of Xi'an! >> See the detailed itinerary for day 1 Day 2：Visit Hanyangling Mausoleum, Small Wild Goose Pagoda and Xi'an Museum Xi'an has more than Terra Cotta Warriors! In this day, you'll visit the Han Yang Ling Mausoleum where the emperor Jingdi of Han Dynasty and his empress buried with lots of valuable funeral objects. Then you'll have the chance to take a close look at the procedure of the relics restoration in their laboratory which is not opened to public. In the afternoon, you'll visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda, built in the 7th century to house the Buddhist materials that the great monk Yi Jing returned from India. At last you'll visit the Xi'an Museum where contains the various treasures of ancient China. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. Day 2：Visit Hanyangling Mausoleum, Small Wild Goose Pagoda and Xi'an Museum Xi'an has more than Terra Cotta Warriors! In this day, you'll visit the Han Yang Ling Mausoleum where the emperor Jingdi of Han Dynasty and his empress buried with lots of valuable funeral objects. Then you'll have the chance to take a close look at the procedure of the relics restoration in their laboratory which is not opened to public. In the afternoon, you'll visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda, built in the 7th century to house the Buddhist materials that the great monk Yi Jing returned from India. At last you'll visit the Xi'an Museum where contains the various treasures of ancient China. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. Xi'an has more than Terra Cotta Warriors! In this day, you'll visit the Han Yang Ling Mausoleum where the emperor Jingdi of Han Dynasty and his empress buried with lots of valuable funeral objects. Then you'll have the chance to take a close look at the procedure of the relics restoration in their laboratory which is not opened to public. In the afternoon, you'll visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda, built in the 7th century to house the Buddhist materials that the great monk Yi Jing returned from India. At last you'll visit the Xi'an Museum where contains the various treasures of ancient China. Please see the detailed itinerary for day 2 below. 7:30 AM – 11:00 AMHotel pick-up and drive to Hanyangling Mausoleum The same as your previous day, your guide will be waiting for you at your hotel lobby at the appointed time (around 7:30 AM - 8 AM) and pick you up to our first destination: Hanyangling Mausoleum. It takes about 40 minutes to drive there. This museum has an underground exhibition hall so that people can see the results of the archeological digs in the big mausoleum complex of Emperor Jingdi (also named Liu Qi, 188 to 141 BC) of the Han Dynasty, his wife, officials, dynastic clan members, and commoners. There is also a graveyard for slaves who built the complex. The underground hall was opened in 2006. The archeological dig site only covers a small area, but the whole burial complex is immense. It covers a total area of about 10 square kilometers or 4 square miles. Good to Know: You will have chance to watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress. Usually it is Chinese version and it would be difficult to understand for English-speaking visitors. As our VIP guests, we will negotiate with the museum manager for an English version movie for you. Hanyangling Mausoleum Watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress 7:30 AM – 11:00 AMHotel pick-up and drive to Hanyangling Mausoleum The same as your previous day, your guide will be waiting for you at your hotel lobby at the appointed time (around 7:30 AM - 8 AM) and pick you up to our first destination: Hanyangling Mausoleum. It takes about 40 minutes to drive there. This museum has an underground exhibition hall so that people can see the results of the archeological digs in the big mausoleum complex of Emperor Jingdi (also named Liu Qi, 188 to 141 BC) of the Han Dynasty, his wife, officials, dynastic clan members, and commoners. There is also a graveyard for slaves who built the complex. The underground hall was opened in 2006. The archeological dig site only covers a small area, but the whole burial complex is immense. It covers a total area of about 10 square kilometers or 4 square miles. Good to Know: You will have chance to watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress. Usually it is Chinese version and it would be difficult to understand for English-speaking visitors. As our VIP guests, we will negotiate with the museum manager for an English version movie for you. Hanyangling Mausoleum Watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress The same as your previous day, your guide will be waiting for you at your hotel lobby at the appointed time (around 7:30 AM - 8 AM) and pick you up to our first destination: Hanyangling Mausoleum. It takes about 40 minutes to drive there. This museum has an underground exhibition hall so that people can see the results of the archeological digs in the big mausoleum complex of Emperor Jingdi (also named Liu Qi, 188 to 141 BC) of the Han Dynasty, his wife, officials, dynastic clan members, and commoners. There is also a graveyard for slaves who built the complex. The underground hall was opened in 2006. The archeological dig site only covers a small area, but the whole burial complex is immense. It covers a total area of about 10 square kilometers or 4 square miles. • You will have chance to watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress. Usually it is Chinese version and it would be difficult to understand for English-speaking visitors. As our VIP guests, we will negotiate with the museum manager for an English version movie for you. Hanyangling Mausoleum Watch a Holographic movie about the history of the Emperor Jingdi and his empress 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMHave lunch at A Local Restaurant (Not Included) Having lunch at a selected local restaurant. You will have chance to taste the most featured Shaanxi local food. Featured Shaanxi local lunch 12:00 PM – 1:00 PMHave lunch at A Local Restaurant (Not Included) Having lunch at a selected local restaurant. You will have chance to taste the most featured Shaanxi local food. Featured Shaanxi local lunch Having lunch at a selected local restaurant. You will have chance to taste the most featured Shaanxi local food. Featured Shaanxi local lunch 1:30 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda Afterwards, you will be transferred to the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. It was built in 707 AD. The story goes that when the great monk Yi Jing returned from India, the birthplace of Buddhism, and appealed to the imperial court for funds to build a pagoda to preserve the holy Buddhist scriptures. Inside Jianfu Temple, there is a huge iron bell, which dates back to the Jin Dynasty (1192 AD). Nowadays, tourists can still ring the bell there to pray for blessings(Included). Ringing the bell at Small Wild Goose Pagoda 1:30 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the Small Wild Goose Pagoda Afterwards, you will be transferred to the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. It was built in 707 AD. The story goes that when the great monk Yi Jing returned from India, the birthplace of Buddhism, and appealed to the imperial court for funds to build a pagoda to preserve the holy Buddhist scriptures. Inside Jianfu Temple, there is a huge iron bell, which dates back to the Jin Dynasty (1192 AD). Nowadays, tourists can still ring the bell there to pray for blessings(Included). Ringing the bell at Small Wild Goose Pagoda Afterwards, you will be transferred to the Small Wild Goose Pagoda. It was built in 707 AD. The story goes that when the great monk Yi Jing returned from India, the birthplace of Buddhism, and appealed to the imperial court for funds to build a pagoda to preserve the holy Buddhist scriptures. Inside Jianfu Temple, there is a huge iron bell, which dates back to the Jin Dynasty (1192 AD). Nowadays, tourists can still ring the bell there to pray for blessings(Included). Ringing the bell at Small Wild Goose Pagoda 3:30 PM – 5:00 PMVisit the Xi'an Museum At last, we will visit Xian Museum. It was opened to the public in May 2017 that is next to Small Wilde Goose Pagoda. It's a great place to learn about the development of this ancient city. The main exhibition hall’s theme is named “The Ancient Capital Xi'an”. Visitors can learn all about Xi’an’s thousand-year history and subsequent development. The exhibits in the museum show the progression of the development of Xi’an City from the Zhou Dynasty to the Ming and Qing Dynasties. There is also a model of Xi’an City throughout various dynastic periods that allows you to see the scale, layout and living conditions of the city’s distant past. 3:30 PM – 5:00 PMVisit the Xi'an Museum At last, we will visit Xian Museum. It was opened to the public in May 2017 that is next to Small Wilde Goose Pagoda. It's a great place to learn about the development of this ancient city. The main exhibition hall’s theme is named “The Ancient Capital Xi'an”. Visitors can learn all about Xi’an’s thousand-year history and subsequent development. The exhibits in the museum show the progression of the development of Xi’an City from the Zhou Dynasty to the Ming and Qing Dynasties. There is also a model of Xi’an City throughout various dynastic periods that allows you to see the scale, layout and living conditions of the city’s distant past. At last, we will visit Xian Museum. It was opened to the public in May 2017 that is next to Small Wilde Goose Pagoda. It's a great place to learn about the development of this ancient city. The main exhibition hall’s theme is named “The Ancient Capital Xi'an”. Visitors can learn all about Xi’an’s thousand-year history and subsequent development. The exhibits in the museum show the progression of the development of Xi’an City from the Zhou Dynasty to the Ming and Qing Dynasties. There is also a model of Xi’an City throughout various dynastic periods that allows you to see the scale, layout and living conditions of the city’s distant past. 5:00 PM – 5:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Xi'an panoramic tour with China Highlights. Tip notes: Tip your guide and driver is not a compulsory requirement but would be a great affirmation of their services. Therefore, we suggest you to give your guide and driver 60 – 100 yuan per person as this would be a great encouragement for them. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ 5:00 PM – 5:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Xi'an panoramic tour with China Highlights. Tip notes: Tip your guide and driver is not a compulsory requirement but would be a great affirmation of their services. Therefore, we suggest you to give your guide and driver 60 – 100 yuan per person as this would be a great encouragement for them. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Xi'an panoramic tour with China Highlights. Tip notes: Tip your guide and driver is not a compulsory requirement but would be a great affirmation of their services. Therefore, we suggest you to give your guide and driver 60 – 100 yuan per person as this would be a great encouragement for them. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Know Before You Book Price Includes: Admission to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the third ring road of Xi'an). Private English-speaking local guide. Price Excludes: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually 50 - 100 RMB per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Important Notes: The peak season includes the following dates: China National Day: 01/Oct - 07/Oct. Chinese Spring Festival. Other dates are indicated as shoulder season. Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. Price Includes: Admission to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the third ring road of Xi'an). Private English-speaking local guide. Price Excludes: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually 50 - 100 RMB per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Important Notes: The peak season includes the following dates: China National Day: 01/Oct - 07/Oct. Chinese Spring Festival. Other dates are indicated as shoulder season. Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. Price Includes: Admission to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the third ring road of Xi'an). Private English-speaking local guide. Price Excludes: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually 50 - 100 RMB per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Admission to attractions listed in the itinerary. • Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel (within the third ring road of Xi'an). • Private English-speaking local guide. • Lunch. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually 50 - 100 RMB per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Important Notes: The peak season includes the following dates: China National Day: 01/Oct - 07/Oct. Chinese Spring Festival. Other dates are indicated as shoulder season. Guaranteed daily departure. Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. • The peak season includes the following dates: China National Day: 01/Oct - 07/Oct. Chinese Spring Festival. Other dates are indicated as shoulder season. • Guaranteed daily departure. • Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 2. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance, there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance, there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance, there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance, there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. What Makes Us Different We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. We offer a deeper exploration into the culture and history and a better experience. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. We have prepared FM headsets and telescopes for our customers to make sure you can hear and watch clearly in the terracotta warriors while other groups are struggling and get lost in the crowds. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. Experience the real local life and culture of Xi'an people. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. You will taste the local food and culture in a local way while other groups have to go to the tourist restaurant and eat the food just for tourists. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. There are no shop stops, no long lines and waits, and no time-wasting activities. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. We never take our customers to the tourist shops while other groups have to waste their time and money on the over-priced souvenirs. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 262 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 262 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 262 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20