ID: 64567220036e3c8f
Title: Shangri-La Transportation: How to Get to/around Shangri-La
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/shangri-la/transportation.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Shangri-La (renamed from Zhongdian) is located in the northwest of Yunnan Province, with Tibet to its west and Sichuan to its east. With so many scenic spots, Shangri-La (with Diqing, Shangri-La's prefecture) is one of the most popular tourist destinations in China. In this Shangri-La transportation guide, you can find out how to get to Shangri-La and Shangri-La regional transport information. • How to Get to Shangri-La • How to Get Around Shangri-La How to Get to Shangri-La The primary means of reaching Shangri-La are by air and high-speed rail, which are also the methods we recommend most. Shangri-La has one airport, Diqing Shangri-La Airport, which primarily operates domestic flights, including direct flights from major cities such as Shanghai and Beijing. This means that if you are flying from abroad, you will need to fly to Kunming or another Chinese city before transferring to Shangri-La. Additionally, there is a railway station in Shangri-La, known as Shangri-La Station, which mainly serves high-speed rail routes within Yunnan Province and to surrounding cities. Singapore/Malaysia to Shangri-La Currently, there are no direct flights from Singapore or Malaysia to Shangri-La. We recommend first taking a direct flight to Kunming, then flying on to Shangri-La, which is the fastest and most convenient option. The flight from Singapore or Malaysia to Kunming takes approximately 4 hours, while the onward journey from Kunming to Shangri-La takes around 1 hour. The layover time may be from 4 to 20 hours. A more relaxed way would be to arrive in Kunming and spend 1 to 2 days there to relax and explore before heading to Shangri-La. Alternatively, you could choose to land in another city, such as Guangzhou, and then fly to Shangri-La, but compared to Kunming, other cities offer fewer flight options and the journey would take longer. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan Beijing/Shanghai to Shangri-La By plane (recommended): Beijing and Shanghai each have one daily flight to Shangri-La. The flight time is about 5½ hours. By train: It would be a long journey (1–2 days) to Shangri-La from Beijing or Shanghai. You would first need to take a normal train to Kunming and then change in Kunming for a high-speed train to Shangri-La. Guangzhou to Shangri-La By plane (recommended): There is one daily flight from Guangzhou to Shangri-La, taking about 3 hours. By train: The whole journey would take about 15–20 hours. You could take a high-speed train from Guangzhou to Kunming, then change to another high-speed train for Shangri-La. Chengdu to Shangri-La By plane (recommended): There are 1 or 2 flights from Chengdu to Shangri-La daily, taking about 1½ hours. By train: The train journey from Chengdu to Shangri-La also needs a change in Kunming. The whole journey takes about 13 to 15 hours. By road (the scenic way): You would travel on the Sichuan-Tibet and Yunnan-Tibet highways, China's most beautiful highways, where you could enjoy snow mountains, magnificent gorges, meadows, and Tibetan villages. See our 8-Day Chengdu to Shangri-La Adventure Tour You will pass Daocheng Yading from Chengdu to Shangri-La. By plane (recommended): There is one daily flight from Lhasa to Shangri-La, taking about 2 hours. By road: You could travel from Lhasa to Shangri-La on the Yunnan-Tibet Highway, sightseeing along the way. Travel from Lhasa to Nyingchi and on to Bomi, passing by Namjagbarwa Peak, Laigu Glacier, and the Meili Snow Mountains before arriving in Shangri-La. 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour An Epic Landscape Journey to the Plateau of Tibet 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour An Epic Landscape Journey to the Plateau of Tibet 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour An Epic Landscape Journey to the Plateau of Tibet Kunming to Shangri-La By plane (recommended): There are several flights from Kunming to Shangri-La every day. The flight time is about 1 hour. It's the fastest and easiest option. By train: If you want to travel in a more-economical way, taking a high-speed train is a good choice. They take about 5 to 6 hours from Kunming to Shangri-La. By train (recommended): Taking a high-speed train is the best way from Dali to Shangri-La. The journey takes about 4 hours. By plane: There are no flights from Dali to Shangri-La. Lijiang to Shangri-La By road (recommended): The reason for recommending a car is that if you're planning to visit Tiger Leaping Gorge, located between Lijiang and Shangri-La, driving is more convenient, allowing you to stop off anywhere in the gorge enroute. By train: The high-speed train from Lijiang to Shangri-La takes about 1 to 2 hours. By flight: There are no flights between Lijiang and Shangri-La. 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments How to Get Around Shangri-La Attractions within Shangri-La's city area, such as Dukezong Ancient Town and Songzanlin Monastery, are easily accessible by bus or taxi. For more distant destinations, like Pudacuo National Park and Napa Lake, it's recommended to use a private transfer, although taking a taxi is also an option. Since most of Shangri-La's attractions are relatively far apart, opting for a private transfer is the best way to save time and trouble. Shangri-La Airport to Shangri-La city center Dukezong Old Town is usually considered as the city center area. From Shangri-La airport, you could take a taxi or a private car there, which takes about 10 to 15 minutes. This is the most convenient option. Taking a bus is not recommended. You would need to walk for about 40 minutes to find the bus stop, which would be tiring, time-consuming, and troublesome. Shangri-La Railway Station to Shangri-La city center Shangri-La Railway Station is very close to the downtown area (Dukezong Old Town). Taking a taxi or asking for a private transfer is the most convenient way between them. It takes about 15 minutes. Or you could choose to take a bus. A bus from the station to the old town takes about half an hour. Shangri-La to the Meili Snow Mountain Feilai Temple Viewing Platform The holy Meili Snow Mountains are in Deqin County. Feilai Temple is one of the best viewing platforms. You could choose to take a bus from Shangri-La to Feilai Temple. It would take about 4 hours. The departure point of the bus is usually Dukezong Old Town. For more convenient and comfortable travel, a private car transfer is highly recommended. We could take you to another platform with fewer people and a wider view — Wunongding Viewing Platform. The scenery along the road is extremely beautiful. You could also enjoy the scenery of Napa Lake, Jinsha River Grand Gorge, Benzhilan, Dongzhuling Monastery, and Baima Snow Mountain at your own pace. See our 7-Day Shangri-La and Meili Snow Mountain Adventure Tour Shangri-La to Yubeng Village Yubeng Village is located in Deqin County. If you want to go on your own, you would need to take a bus from Shangri-La to Feiji Temple (about 4 hours) and then take a bus from Feiji Temple to Xidang Village (about 1 hour). After arriving at Xidang Village, you would need to transfer to an off-road vehicle to reach Shangyubeng Village (about 40 minutes), which is usually the starting point of the Yubeng hike. If you want to save time and trouble, flexible private transfers are more convenient and recommended. Your driver would start the journey and stop at any time you chose based on your schedule. Check out our 4-Day Yubeng Village Hiking Tour Shangri-La to Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking in Tiger Leaping Gorge The drive from Shangri-La to Tiger Leaping Gorge takes approximately 3 hours. If you are simply sightseeing and opt for a private transfer, it is feasible to make a round trip from Shangri-La to Tiger Leaping Gorge or pass through Tiger Leaping Gorge on your way to Lijiang within a day. If you plan to hike, you would need to allocate 1 to 2 days. Naxi Family Guesthouse is the starting point for most hiking. With a private transfer, your driver would drop you off at the starting point and wait for you at the end point. If you want to take a bus, choose a bus that stops in Hutiaoxia Town. And from there, hire a car to reach your hiking start point. Recommended Shangri-La/Yunnan Tours • 4-Day Shangri-La Exploration Tour • 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure Tour • 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour If you want to make some adjustments or customize your itinerary, just contact us. All our tours are customizable.