ID: 21097f58d9274d36
Title: Best Things to Do and Places to Go in Shanghai
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/shanghai/best-of-shanghai.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Find the best things to do, and places to go in Shanghai. Top 7 Reasons to Visit Shanghai Don't know why to visit Shanghai? Check here to get the top reason to visit Shanghai and see the tours recommended. The Top 10 Things to Do in Shanghai No idea what to do and where to go in Shanghai for the first time? Don't worry, this will get you started. Top 7 Interesting Things to Do with Your Kids in Shanghai Want to visit Shanghai with kids in Shanghai? Check here to see our best selected attractions and things to do for children in Shanghai. Top 7 Reasons to Visit Shanghai Don't know why to visit Shanghai? Check here to get the top reason to visit Shanghai and see the tours recommended. Top 7 Reasons to Visit Shanghai Don't know why to visit Shanghai? Check here to get the top reason to visit Shanghai and see the tours recommended. The Top 10 Things to Do in Shanghai No idea what to do and where to go in Shanghai for the first time? Don't worry, this will get you started. The Top 10 Things to Do in Shanghai No idea what to do and where to go in Shanghai for the first time? Don't worry, this will get you started. Top 7 Interesting Things to Do with Your Kids in Shanghai Want to visit Shanghai with kids in Shanghai? Check here to see our best selected attractions and things to do for children in Shanghai. Top 7 Interesting Things to Do with Your Kids in Shanghai Want to visit Shanghai with kids in Shanghai? Check here to see our best selected attractions and things to do for children in Shanghai. The 10 Most Unusual Museums in Shanghai Information about the 10 most unusual museums in Shanghai, including Shanghai Typewriter Museum, Animation Museum, Chopsticks Museum and more. Enjoying Shanghai's Waterfront Shanghai has a thriving waterfront complete with riverside walks, docks, riverboat restaurants, towering skylines, and gardens. Top Five Free Things to Do in Shanghai A list of top five free things to do in Shanghai, including visiting free museums, appreciating Chinese artistic works, strolling the best streets and visiting ancient water towns. The 10 Most Unusual Museums in Shanghai Information about the 10 most unusual museums in Shanghai, including Shanghai Typewriter Museum, Animation Museum, Chopsticks Museum and more. The 10 Most Unusual Museums in Shanghai Information about the 10 most unusual museums in Shanghai, including Shanghai Typewriter Museum, Animation Museum, Chopsticks Museum and more. Enjoying Shanghai's Waterfront Shanghai has a thriving waterfront complete with riverside walks, docks, riverboat restaurants, towering skylines, and gardens. Enjoying Shanghai's Waterfront Shanghai has a thriving waterfront complete with riverside walks, docks, riverboat restaurants, towering skylines, and gardens. Top Five Free Things to Do in Shanghai A list of top five free things to do in Shanghai, including visiting free museums, appreciating Chinese artistic works, strolling the best streets and visiting ancient water towns. Top Five Free Things to Do in Shanghai A list of top five free things to do in Shanghai, including visiting free museums, appreciating Chinese artistic works, strolling the best streets and visiting ancient water towns. The Top 10 Churches to Attend in Shanghai There are many churches of various denominations to attend while on a trip to or tour of Shanghai. Shanghai Massage Centers and Spas — Relaxing Recommendations Recommended massage centers and spas in Shanghai, including the themed spas and specialists like Zen Massage, Taipan Spa, and Skin city 5.5. Top 5 Old Streets in Shanghai to Explore Old Shanghai Introducing to the old streets and old buildings in Shanghai which tell you the history of Shanghai, including Sinan Road, Huashan Road, West Wuding Road, Changle Road and more. The Top 10 Churches to Attend in Shanghai There are many churches of various denominations to attend while on a trip to or tour of Shanghai. The Top 10 Churches to Attend in Shanghai There are many churches of various denominations to attend while on a trip to or tour of Shanghai. Shanghai Massage Centers and Spas — Relaxing Recommendations Recommended massage centers and spas in Shanghai, including the themed spas and specialists like Zen Massage, Taipan Spa, and Skin city 5.5. Shanghai Massage Centers and Spas — Relaxing Recommendations Recommended massage centers and spas in Shanghai, including the themed spas and specialists like Zen Massage, Taipan Spa, and Skin city 5.5. Top 5 Old Streets in Shanghai to Explore Old Shanghai Introducing to the old streets and old buildings in Shanghai which tell you the history of Shanghai, including Sinan Road, Huashan Road, West Wuding Road, Changle Road and more. Top 5 Old Streets in Shanghai to Explore Old Shanghai Introducing to the old streets and old buildings in Shanghai which tell you the history of Shanghai, including Sinan Road, Huashan Road, West Wuding Road, Changle Road and more. The Most Romantic Places in Shanghai Shanghai offers many romantic places and date activities: beautiful parks, art galleries, restaurants, ice-skating, ballroom dancing... Popular Ski Sites around Shanghai A recommendation of the popular ski resorts around Shanghai, including Lin'an Daming Mountain, An'ji Jiangnan Tianchi, and Ningbo Shangliang. The Most Romantic Places in Shanghai Shanghai offers many romantic places and date activities: beautiful parks, art galleries, restaurants, ice-skating, ballroom dancing... The Most Romantic Places in Shanghai Shanghai offers many romantic places and date activities: beautiful parks, art galleries, restaurants, ice-skating, ballroom dancing... Popular Ski Sites around Shanghai A recommendation of the popular ski resorts around Shanghai, including Lin'an Daming Mountain, An'ji Jiangnan Tianchi, and Ningbo Shangliang. Popular Ski Sites around Shanghai A recommendation of the popular ski resorts around Shanghai, including Lin'an Daming Mountain, An'ji Jiangnan Tianchi, and Ningbo Shangliang. The Best Parks in Shanghai Recommended some of the Best Parks in Shanghai for leisure and relax, including Century Park, People's Park, Xujiahui Park, Zhongshan Park, and Gongqing Forest Park. The Top 7 Museums in Shanghai The detailed travel information about the top seven Shanghai museums include Shanghai Museum, the Natural History Museum, and Urban Planning Exhibition Center. The Best Parks in Shanghai Recommended some of the Best Parks in Shanghai for leisure and relax, including Century Park, People's Park, Xujiahui Park, Zhongshan Park, and Gongqing Forest Park. The Best Parks in Shanghai Recommended some of the Best Parks in Shanghai for leisure and relax, including Century Park, People's Park, Xujiahui Park, Zhongshan Park, and Gongqing Forest Park. The Top 7 Museums in Shanghai The detailed travel information about the top seven Shanghai museums include Shanghai Museum, the Natural History Museum, and Urban Planning Exhibition Center. The Top 7 Museums in Shanghai The detailed travel information about the top seven Shanghai museums include Shanghai Museum, the Natural History Museum, and Urban Planning Exhibition Center. Top 10 Spots to Enjoy the Awesome Night View of Shanghai Recommended the best places to see night scenery in Shanghai, including the Bund, Nanjing Road, Xintiand, People's Square, Xujiahui and more. Best Cycling Routes around Shanghai This article recommends you several best cycling routes around Shanghai, and offers information about how to rent a bike. Top Golf Courses in Shanghai This article provides some data about golf courses in Shanghai. Top 10 Spots to Enjoy the Awesome Night View of Shanghai Recommended the best places to see night scenery in Shanghai, including the Bund, Nanjing Road, Xintiand, People's Square, Xujiahui and more. Top 10 Spots to Enjoy the Awesome Night View of Shanghai Recommended the best places to see night scenery in Shanghai, including the Bund, Nanjing Road, Xintiand, People's Square, Xujiahui and more. Best Cycling Routes around Shanghai This article recommends you several best cycling routes around Shanghai, and offers information about how to rent a bike. Best Cycling Routes around Shanghai This article recommends you several best cycling routes around Shanghai, and offers information about how to rent a bike. Top Golf Courses in Shanghai This article provides some data about golf courses in Shanghai. Top Golf Courses in Shanghai This article provides some data about golf courses in Shanghai. The Best Laundries in Shanghai Location and contact information of the Best Laundries in Shanghai, including Shanghai-USA GEP Dry Cleaning Chain, Fornet, and Witters Laundry Shop in Qingpu. The Best Photography Spots in Shanghai Most go to the Bund to see the Shanghai skyline. However, there are many other vantage points for grand views and great photos... The Top 8 Festivals in Shanghai We recommend that you include at least one of these festivals in your Shanghai itinerary. This page will help you choose and match your dates as appropriate. The Best Laundries in Shanghai Location and contact information of the Best Laundries in Shanghai, including Shanghai-USA GEP Dry Cleaning Chain, Fornet, and Witters Laundry Shop in Qingpu. The Best Laundries in Shanghai Location and contact information of the Best Laundries in Shanghai, including Shanghai-USA GEP Dry Cleaning Chain, Fornet, and Witters Laundry Shop in Qingpu. The Best Photography Spots in Shanghai Most go to the Bund to see the Shanghai skyline. However, there are many other vantage points for grand views and great photos... The Best Photography Spots in Shanghai Most go to the Bund to see the Shanghai skyline. However, there are many other vantage points for grand views and great photos... The Top 8 Festivals in Shanghai We recommend that you include at least one of these festivals in your Shanghai itinerary. This page will help you choose and match your dates as appropriate. The Top 8 Festivals in Shanghai We recommend that you include at least one of these festivals in your Shanghai itinerary. This page will help you choose and match your dates as appropriate. Shanghai: A Global Centre of Art Deco The best architectural sights in Shanghai are not just the sky scrapers, but also include some best art deco architecture in the world. Treasures of Shanghai's Art Scene Shanghai is one of the contemporary art capitals of Asia if not the world. In such a huge city finding the art venues can be difficult but art is often found in extraordinary places. Here are few of the best places to explore. Shanghai's Top Cultural Performances Shanghai Cultural Performances include puppet and shadow theater productions, orchestral music, acrobatics, and kung fu. Shanghai: A Global Centre of Art Deco The best architectural sights in Shanghai are not just the sky scrapers, but also include some best art deco architecture in the world. Shanghai: A Global Centre of Art Deco The best architectural sights in Shanghai are not just the sky scrapers, but also include some best art deco architecture in the world. Treasures of Shanghai's Art Scene Shanghai is one of the contemporary art capitals of Asia if not the world. In such a huge city finding the art venues can be difficult but art is often found in extraordinary places. Here are few of the best places to explore. Treasures of Shanghai's Art Scene Shanghai is one of the contemporary art capitals of Asia if not the world. In such a huge city finding the art venues can be difficult but art is often found in extraordinary places. Here are few of the best places to explore. Shanghai's Top Cultural Performances Shanghai Cultural Performances include puppet and shadow theater productions, orchestral music, acrobatics, and kung fu. Shanghai's Top Cultural Performances Shanghai Cultural Performances include puppet and shadow theater productions, orchestral music, acrobatics, and kung fu. Uncovering Shanghai's Oldest Buildings The oldest buildings in Shanghai are including Jing'an Temple, the Astor House Hotel, and St. Ignatius Cathedral. Uncovering Shanghai's Oldest Buildings The oldest buildings in Shanghai are including Jing'an Temple, the Astor House Hotel, and St. Ignatius Cathedral. Uncovering Shanghai's Oldest Buildings The oldest buildings in Shanghai are including Jing'an Temple, the Astor House Hotel, and St. Ignatius Cathedral. Top 3 Lavender Gardens around Shanghai The article introduce the three best places to see lavender around Shanghai, including Shanghai Ancol Dreamland Herb Farm, Chongming Island Zihailuyuan Romantic Garden and more. Best Places to see Fall Foliage in Shanghai Best places to see fall colors in and around Shanghai with photos, best time to go, transportation, tours and more. Top 3 Lavender Gardens around Shanghai The article introduce the three best places to see lavender around Shanghai, including Shanghai Ancol Dreamland Herb Farm, Chongming Island Zihailuyuan Romantic Garden and more. Top 3 Lavender Gardens around Shanghai The article introduce the three best places to see lavender around Shanghai, including Shanghai Ancol Dreamland Herb Farm, Chongming Island Zihailuyuan Romantic Garden and more. Best Places to see Fall Foliage in Shanghai Best places to see fall colors in and around Shanghai with photos, best time to go, transportation, tours and more. Best Places to see Fall Foliage in Shanghai Best places to see fall colors in and around Shanghai with photos, best time to go, transportation, tours and more. 4 Best Places to Escape the Summer Heat in Shanghai When it gets sweltering and humid in Shanghai, enjoy a nearby cooler locale nearby — islands, mountains, lakes, water parks. Shanghai's Top 7 Attractions for Autumn Outings The article introduces 7 best places for autumn outings in and around Shanghai. 4 Best Places to Escape the Summer Heat in Shanghai When it gets sweltering and humid in Shanghai, enjoy a nearby cooler locale nearby — islands, mountains, lakes, water parks. 4 Best Places to Escape the Summer Heat in Shanghai When it gets sweltering and humid in Shanghai, enjoy a nearby cooler locale nearby — islands, mountains, lakes, water parks. Shanghai's Top 7 Attractions for Autumn Outings The article introduces 7 best places for autumn outings in and around Shanghai. Shanghai's Top 7 Attractions for Autumn Outings The article introduces 7 best places for autumn outings in and around Shanghai. Top Water Parks in Shanghai Information about the top 3 Water Parks in Shanghai, including Maya Beach, Dino Beach, Dakang water parks with Address, opening hours, transportation and other travel tips. Top Water Parks in Shanghai Information about the top 3 Water Parks in Shanghai, including Maya Beach, Dino Beach, Dakang water parks with Address, opening hours, transportation and other travel tips. Top Water Parks in Shanghai Information about the top 3 Water Parks in Shanghai, including Maya Beach, Dino Beach, Dakang water parks with Address, opening hours, transportation and other travel tips.