ID: 709e22f7d1350588
Title: China Educational Tours 2026: Top Student-Teacher Trips
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tour/educational-tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China, with its long history, rich culture, and captivating natural landscapes, has become one of the most popular countries for international students to study and visit for education. Students can experience the differences between Eastern and Western cultures. Witness the rapid development of China into the world's second-largest economy. And encounter the diligence and friendliness of Chinese people. We have over a decade of experience in educational tours and deeply understand student group concerns and needs. We have specifically designed a series of immersive experiences and interactive activities for students. Learn through experience and deeply engage with Chinese culture with us. We enable students to interact with local residents and students. They can improve their Chinese language skills and experience local life. Gain insights into the development of "New China". And get inspired about the future and careers. Popular Educational Tours The following tours explore China's top destinations. We showcase the contrast between ancient and modern China. We offer outdoor activities to enjoy China's landscapes. And we provide unique cultural experiences. You can interact with local schools to see education in a new light and improve your language skills. Experience Ancient and New China 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Educational Tour View More Immerse Yourself in Nature and Embrace Culture 12-Day China Educational Trip: Nature and Culture View More A Journey of Intercultural Communication 12-Day China Educational Tour with School Exchange Visits View More Learn about China with Many Experiential Activities 10-day Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu Educational Tour View More Single Destination Educational Tours If you have about a week and wish to explore a specific region in depth, the following tours are ideal choices. In the Yangtze River Delta, learn about China's economic development. In Yunnan, experience the rich culture of ethnic minorities. Or, in Guilin, enjoy outdoor activities and picturesque rural landscapes. Each trip can be tailored to your preferences and interests. Development of the Economic Center in China 8-Day Shanghai, Suzhou, and Hangzhou Educational Tour View More Explore Xi'an's Regional Highlights 7-Day Xi'an Educational Tour View More A School Trip with Culture and Adventure 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups View More Outdoor Fun in Famous Guilin 7-Day Guilin School Trip View More Panda and Shu Culture 6-Day Chengdu Educational Tour View More Yellow Mountains and Hui Culture 6-Day Huangshan Educational Tour View More China, with its long history, rich culture, and captivating natural landscapes, has become one of the most popular countries for international students to study and visit for education. Students can experience the differences between Eastern and Western cultures. Witness the rapid development of China into the world's second-largest economy. And encounter the diligence and friendliness of Chinese people. China, with its long history, rich culture, and captivating natural landscapes, has become one of the most popular countries for international students to study and visit for education. Students can experience the differences between Eastern and Western cultures. Witness the rapid development of China into the world's second-largest economy. And encounter the diligence and friendliness of Chinese people. China, with its long history, rich culture, and captivating natural landscapes, has become one of the most popular countries for international students to study and visit for education. • Students can experience the differences between Eastern and Western cultures. • Witness the rapid development of China into the world's second-largest economy. • And encounter the diligence and friendliness of Chinese people. We have over a decade of experience in educational tours and deeply understand student group concerns and needs. We have specifically designed a series of immersive experiences and interactive activities for students. Learn through experience and deeply engage with Chinese culture with us. We enable students to interact with local residents and students. They can improve their Chinese language skills and experience local life. Gain insights into the development of "New China". And get inspired about the future and careers. We have over a decade of experience in educational tours and deeply understand student group concerns and needs. We have specifically designed a series of immersive experiences and interactive activities for students. Learn through experience and deeply engage with Chinese culture with us. We enable students to interact with local residents and students. They can improve their Chinese language skills and experience local life. Gain insights into the development of "New China". And get inspired about the future and careers. We have over a decade of experience in educational tours and deeply understand student group concerns and needs. We have specifically designed a series of immersive experiences and interactive activities for students. Learn through experience and deeply engage with Chinese culture with us. • We enable students to interact with local residents and students. • They can improve their Chinese language skills and experience local life. • Gain insights into the development of "New China". • And get inspired about the future and careers. Popular Educational Tours The following tours explore China's top destinations. We showcase the contrast between ancient and modern China. We offer outdoor activities to enjoy China's landscapes. And we provide unique cultural experiences. You can interact with local schools to see education in a new light and improve your language skills. Experience Ancient and New China 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Educational Tour View More Immerse Yourself in Nature and Embrace Culture 12-Day China Educational Trip: Nature and Culture View More A Journey of Intercultural Communication 12-Day China Educational Tour with School Exchange Visits View More Learn about China with Many Experiential Activities 10-day Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu Educational Tour View More Experience Ancient and New China 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Educational Tour View More Experience Ancient and New China 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Educational Tour View More Immerse Yourself in Nature and Embrace Culture 12-Day China Educational Trip: Nature and Culture View More Immerse Yourself in Nature and Embrace Culture 12-Day China Educational Trip: Nature and Culture View More A Journey of Intercultural Communication 12-Day China Educational Tour with School Exchange Visits View More A Journey of Intercultural Communication 12-Day China Educational Tour with School Exchange Visits View More Learn about China with Many Experiential Activities 10-day Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu Educational Tour View More Learn about China with Many Experiential Activities 10-day Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu Educational Tour View More Single Destination Educational Tours If you have about a week and wish to explore a specific region in depth, the following tours are ideal choices. In the Yangtze River Delta, learn about China's economic development. In Yunnan, experience the rich culture of ethnic minorities. Or, in Guilin, enjoy outdoor activities and picturesque rural landscapes. Each trip can be tailored to your preferences and interests. Development of the Economic Center in China 8-Day Shanghai, Suzhou, and Hangzhou Educational Tour View More Explore Xi'an's Regional Highlights 7-Day Xi'an Educational Tour View More A School Trip with Culture and Adventure 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups View More Outdoor Fun in Famous Guilin 7-Day Guilin School Trip View More Development of the Economic Center in China 8-Day Shanghai, Suzhou, and Hangzhou Educational Tour View More Development of the Economic Center in China 8-Day Shanghai, Suzhou, and Hangzhou Educational Tour View More Explore Xi'an's Regional Highlights 7-Day Xi'an Educational Tour View More Explore Xi'an's Regional Highlights 7-Day Xi'an Educational Tour View More A School Trip with Culture and Adventure 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups View More A School Trip with Culture and Adventure 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups View More Outdoor Fun in Famous Guilin 7-Day Guilin School Trip View More Outdoor Fun in Famous Guilin 7-Day Guilin School Trip View More Panda and Shu Culture 6-Day Chengdu Educational Tour View More Yellow Mountains and Hui Culture 6-Day Huangshan Educational Tour View More Panda and Shu Culture 6-Day Chengdu Educational Tour View More Panda and Shu Culture 6-Day Chengdu Educational Tour View More Yellow Mountains and Hui Culture 6-Day Huangshan Educational Tour View More Yellow Mountains and Hui Culture 6-Day Huangshan Educational Tour View More Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights