ID: 3a8244428378847f
Title: Jade Dragon Snow Mountain 2026: How to Visit, Weather, Map
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/lijiang/attraction/jade-dragon-snow-mountain.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, or Yulong Snow Mountain the most southerly always-snowcapped mountain in the Northern Hemisphere, is renowned for its breathtaking scenery. It's called "Heavenly Mountain" in the Naxi language and features a chain of 13 snowcapped peaks that resemble a giant flying dragon. Its black-and-white appearance, due to its limestone and basalt composition, has earned it the name 'Black and White Snow Mountain'. Revered by the Naxi people, it represents their protector, the war god Sanduo. • Location: Lijiang, Yunnan, China • Elevation: 5,596 meters (18,360 feet) • Main attractions: Glacier Park, Blue Moon Valley, Spruce Meadow, and Yak Meadow • Time needed: half to one day • Open times: 6am to 6pm (May to October), 6:30am to 6pm (November to April) • Best time to admire snow: November to April • Highlights of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain • Take a Leisurely Cableways Tour • Recommended Hiking Tour Routes • Best Times to Visit • How to Get to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain • Do You Need to Stay Overnight Nearby The Highlights of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Scenic Area Four Main Attractions Admire the snow peaks from Blue Moon Valley • Glacier Park (suggested visit 2–4 hours): At Glacier Park you could ascend to an elevation of 4,680 m (15,350 ft) — the highest that visitors typically reach. • Blue Moon Valley (1 hour): This crescent-shaped valley has similar scenery to Jiuzhaigou. The water is blue on sunny days, and the white mud at the bottom of the lake makes it look particularly moon-like, hence the name. • Spruce Meadow (2–3 hours): This flat meadow is surrounded by lofty spruces. You could immerse yourself in a peaceful forest vibe or appreciate the snowy mountain peaks from the meadow. • Yak Meadow (2–3 hours): This is a large alpine meadow with rolling hills and a running river. It's perfect for enjoying the snowy mountain peaks and hiking along the wooden boardwalk. Other Popular Attractions/Activities Sunrise at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain • Ganhaizi Meadow (1–2 hours): An expansive meadow, it's ideal for admiring the sunrise and reflection of the snow-covered mountain on the lake there. • Impression Lijiang Show (1 hour): A grand outdoor performance set against the backdrop of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, portrays the culture and charm of local ethnic minorities. • Enjoy snow activities (1–2 hours): With abundant snow during winter, the snow mountain becomes a fun place for snowball fights and skiing. An informal ski resort with a ski piste and snow tubing can be found on the mountainside. Which Way to Visit: Cableway or Hiking Typically, cableway or hiking are the two main ways to explore Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. The cableways are a popular way to visit many attractions, from glaciers, valleys, and meadows to forests. Convenient and leisurely, they are suitable for all ages, especially for families with kids or seniors. Alternatively, you could hike. The hidden hiking routes, ranging from entry-level to challenging, would lead you deep into nature and by local villages. You would traverse wild bushy terrain, forests, and meadows, and may even encounter grazing yaks. Cableways up Jade Dragon Snow Mountain There are three cableways in the scenic area — running to Glacier Park, Spruce Meadow, and Yak Meadow. No cableways lead to Blue Moon Valley or Ganhaizi Meadow, although you could reach these destinations by shuttle bus. A shuttle bus would also take you to the respective cableway stations. After visiting an attraction, return to the cableway station entrance and take a shuttle bus to the next spot. The Map of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain 1. Glacier Park Cableway: 10 Minutes Glacier Park of Yulong Snow Mountain, 4506 meters The cableway would take you to Glacier Park. Once you get off the cable car, there would still be stairs for you to climb to reach a viewpoint at an altitude of 4,680 meters (15,350 feet). The high elevation makes it difficult for very young kids and many seniors to climb. Beware of altitude sickness! Portable oxygen canisters and warm clothes are necessary to recover when encountering altitude sickness. These could also be bought or rented (a down jacket rents at about 50 CNY) on the mountainside. Normally, Glacier Park has abundant snow from November to April, with the most snow in March, while it has the least snow in July and August. The cable car could be closed if it is too windy, which happens most often from December to February. Queues for the cableway could last for up to 3 hours during the summer peak season and Chinese public holidays. You'd best avoid those times, or start your tour early in the morning. 2. Spruce Meadow Cableway: 8 Minutes This cableway has fixed ride times. You would need to arrive according to your reserved time. This avoids long queues. After getting off the cable car, you could walk through the spruce forests and green meadow with a 1½-hour leisurely stroll along a plank broadwalk. The interwoven meadows, forests, and snowcapped peaks form a layered landscape, making it a perfect spot for photography. The forests and meadows are verdant in summer, while it may seem a little bleak in winter when the grass is withered. 3. Yak Meadow Cableway: 20 Minutes Few visitors go there since it is the farthest of the three cableways on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. However, it has a wider view that offers a great position to admire the 13 snow mountain peaks. In addition, you would see yaks grazing on the highland grassland. You would need a 40-minute shuttle bus ride to get to the Yak Meadow Cableway Station from the Tourist Center. The cable car is ventilated on all sides, providing fresh air, although this might make it less comfortable on rainy days. Suggested Tour Routes Using the Cableways It would be too much of a rush to visit all of the mountain's attractions in a day. We recommend selecting two main attractions to visit in half a day or spending a full day exploring three to four attractions. You could skip some similar attractions, such as Spruce Meadow or Yak Meadow, for a better experience and to save time. Here are several well-chosen routes, for reference. Recommended Half-Day Routes • Spruce Meadow → Blue Moon Valley For families with little kids and elderly members, this route is suitable and popular. With a relatively low elevation, the risk of altitude sickness is much lower. Additionally, the direct shuttle bus from Spruce meadow to Blue Moon Valley means travel time is minimal. Spruce Forest on the Meadow • The Glacier Park → Blue Moon Valley It is ideal for adults and teenagers who want to ascend to the snowy, glaciated, high zone of the mountain to see the glaciers and snow. However, in summer, there is only a little snow on the mountaintop. Nearby Blue Moon Valley can be easily appreciated afterwards with a direct shuttle bus ride. Plank walkway on Glacier Park A Full Day Trip Route • The Glacier Park → Spruce Meadow → Blue Moon Valley Direct shuttle buses link these attractions, allowing for a leisurely travel pace without detours. The scenery of Spruce Meadow and Yak Meadow are quite similar, so we recommend Spruce Meadow because of its low altitude and convenience for transfers. It's best to skip Ganhaizi if you are not very there early to witness the sunrise. Further down the page we have some tips for admiring the sunrise if you're interested. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Hiking Jade Dragon Snow Mountain is a popular hiking destination. Skip the cable cars, and ascend the lofty mountain step by step to get close to its beauty and feel its awesomeness. Here are three popular hiking routes. 1. The Alpine Meadow Route (Entry Level) Hike across the meadow • Difficulty: 3-star • Route: Start from Yuhu Village, ascend to Alpine Meadow, then return to Yuhu. • Duration: The round-trip hike is only about 9 km (5 miles), but it normally takes about 6 hours. • Elevation: There are about 900 meters (3,000 feet) of ascent. The highest point you will get to is about 3,600 meters (11,800 feet) above sea level at Alpine Meadow. This route is suitable for casual hikers and people who want to have a feeling of ascent without too much of a challenge. To reach the meadow at the southern foot of the mountain range, you would cross a grassland and pass through a forest where cows often graze. If you are lucky, yaks could be spotted in the meadow. From March to May, you would encounter slopes adorned with blooming azalea flowers. With this hike, you could enjoy views of the peaks of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, the surrounding mountains, and even Lijiang city in the distance (weather permitting). If you are interested in this hiking route, contact us. We could help you arrange a Jade Dragon Snow Mountain hiking trip that's tailored to your needs and interests. 18-Day Epic China Tour Including Yunnan and Tibet See the Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 18-Day Epic China Tour Including Yunnan and Tibet See the Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 18-Day Epic China Tour Including Yunnan and Tibet See the Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 2. Snow Mountain Canyon Park Route (Challenging) • Difficulty: 5-star • Route: Start from Yuhu Village to Snow Mountain Canyon then back to Yuhu Village • Duration: The round-trip trip hike is about 19 km (12 miles), and usually takes 8 hours. • Elevation: The highest point you will get to is about 5,100 meters (16,700 feet) above sea level at Snow Mountain Canyon Route, so the ascent is 2,400 m (8,000 ft). This hiking route is the most challenging. Good physical strength and resistance to altitude sickness are needed. Along the way, you would cross grasslands, climb steep mountain paths, and cross loose scree slopes to finally reach Snow Mountain Canyon Park, where you could face Shanzidou, the highest peak of the mountain at quite a close distance. If you have some alpine hiking experience, are very fit and well-equipped, and want to see the main snowcapped peak across a vast canyon, you are recommended to challenge yourself with this route. See more hiking tours in Lijiang. Best Times to Visit Jade Dragon Snow Mountain November to April: This period is ideal for admiring the pure snow-covered mountain and hiking, with abundant snowfall, more clear days, and a higher possibility of witnessing the mountain bathed in golden sunlight. But it could be quite cold, so dressing warmly is essential. June to August: During summer, only the mountain peaks remain covered in snow, but Spruce Meadow and Yak Meadow are vibrant and green. It is the rainy season with frequent showers, and you also have to prepare for the large crowds due to the summer vacations. May, September, and October: Apart from the first week of May and of October, these months have fewer tourists and good weather. Meadows and forests still appear green in September and October. However, the snow scenery is less prominent. 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming - Dali - Lijiang - Urumqi - Turpan - Kashgar 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming - Dali - Lijiang - Urumqi - Turpan - Kashgar 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming - Dali - Lijiang - Urumqi - Turpan - Kashgar How to Get to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain From Lijiang Old Town, a 1-hour journey by private vehicle, taxi, or shuttle bus would get you to the foot of the mountain. The shuttle bus starts from Zhongyi Market at the South Gate of the town. From Lijiang Railway Station or Lijiang Sanyi International Airport, there is no direct bus to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, requiring a transfer in Lijiang Old Town. You could reach the mountain more flexibly and directly by taxi or private vehicle with 1½ hours of driving. Do You Need to Stay Overnight Near the Mountain? We don't recommend spending nights around Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, as it offers very limited accommodation options. Typically, most visitors stay for 1–3 days in Lijiang to explore its many attractions, including Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, which is a 1-hour drive from the city center. For first-timers, Lijiang Old Town is a better place to stay. Located in a central area, it offers more options for accommodation (from bustling areas to quiet areas), dining, and evening activities, as well as convenient transportation to get to most of the attractions around Lijiang. If you don't mind changing hotels during your Lijiang trip and want to stay near the snow mountain, consider Baisha Ancient Town, where you could admire the vistas of the snow mountain from the windows of quaint boutique hotels. It is half an hour's drive from Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, but further from other attractions in Lijiang. For a hiking tour, staying in Yuhu Village is recommended. Located at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, this authentic and tranquil village is usually the departure place for hiking routes, and permits an early start. Tips for Admiring the Sunrise Admiring the sunrise at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain could be a magical experience for many visitors. How to choose the right spots and time could help you better appreciate it. Here are some tips for you. • Ganhaizi Meadow is the best spot. Opposite the Tourist Center, it's convenient to visit other attractions from there • Dongba Valley is outside, but near to the scenic area, featuring more lakes, and it's free to enter. • May to October: 6am to 7am • November to April: 7:30am to 8am These times are based on an average estimate. You're advised to check the local sunrise forecast for more accuracy (altitude will affect when sunrise is visible). Your well-experienced local guide would be able to offer you tailored advice. 3. Consider the Season and Weather • Winter: best season with more clear days (high likelihood of a beautiful sunrise) • Spring and autumn: mixed and changeable weather (moderate likelihood) • Summer: rainy season (relatively low likelihood of clear skies at sunrise) Sunrises are affected greatly by weather and depend on luck to some extent. Even in winter, a clear sunrise is not guaranteed, and, while much less likely, this spectacular sight sometimes occurs in the rainy season. We suggest keeping your expectations low, since beautiful scenery at other attractions is also worth viewing, should getting up early not yield the hoped-for dawn. 4. Prepare for the Cold Despite the season, the temperature could be quite low in the early morning. Dress warmly and take some hot water or tea to keep yourself comfortable. Touring Jade Dragon Snow Mountain with Us Our tours are developed through years of experience and customer feedback. All our tours can be customized to suit your requirements and interests. You can contact us for help. Here are our most popular Lijiang tours, for your reference: • 1-Day Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Hiking Tour • 3-Day Lijiang Ancient Town and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Tour • 6-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Tour Contact us to create a tour according to your requirements or for any questions.