ID: 182cb016f12b1fd7
Title: Top China Tours 2025/2026: Private and Customizable
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/sg/tour/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

With over 25 years of expertise and serving more than 10,000 travelers annually, China Highlights knows exactly what makes your China journey unforgettable. Experience majestic snow-capped peaks, endless deserts, and rolling grasslands. Savor Sichuan hotpot, Peking duck, and Xi'an's hand-pulled noodles. Leave the logistics to us. Our expert team manages everything, from seamless transfers to exclusive experiences. Below, we offer some popular private tours for hassle-free travel. You can directly book these itineraries or customize them to your preference. Whether it's your first trip or your fifth, we'll make China's wonders part of your story. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. With over 25 years of expertise and serving more than 10,000 travelers annually, China Highlights knows exactly what makes your China journey unforgettable. Experience majestic snow-capped peaks, endless deserts, and rolling grasslands. Savor Sichuan hotpot, Peking duck, and Xi'an's hand-pulled noodles. Leave the logistics to us. Our expert team manages everything, from seamless transfers to exclusive experiences. Below, we offer some popular private tours for hassle-free travel. You can directly book these itineraries or customize them to your preference. Whether it's your first trip or your fifth, we'll make China's wonders part of your story. With over 25 years of expertise and serving more than 10,000 travelers annually, China Highlights knows exactly what makes your China journey unforgettable. Experience majestic snow-capped peaks, endless deserts, and rolling grasslands. Savor Sichuan hotpot, Peking duck, and Xi'an's hand-pulled noodles. Leave the logistics to us. Our expert team manages everything, from seamless transfers to exclusive experiences. Below, we offer some popular private tours for hassle-free travel. You can directly book these itineraries or customize them to your preference. Whether it's your first trip or your fifth, we'll make China's wonders part of your story. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. With China Highlights, your travel will be: • FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. • ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. • No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. Top China Tours around One Week 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour from Kunming to Lijiang View More 5-Day Shanghai and Hangzhou High Tech Tour View More Discover the Prosperous Jiangnan 8-Day Shanghai, Hangzhou, Suzhou Family Tour View More 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More 7-Day Beijing & Xi'an Highlights Tour View More 6-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Longsheng Tour View More 6-Day Guizhou Tour with Mt. Fanjing View More 4-Day Essence of Zhangjiajie Tour View More 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour View More 6-Day Xi'an, Luoyang & Shaolin Highlights Tour View More 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour View More 3-Day China's Silicon Valley-Shenzhen Highlights Tour View More Top China Tours around One Week 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour from Kunming to Lijiang View More 5-Day Shanghai and Hangzhou High Tech Tour View More Discover the Prosperous Jiangnan 8-Day Shanghai, Hangzhou, Suzhou Family Tour View More 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour from Kunming to Lijiang View More 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour from Kunming to Lijiang View More 5-Day Shanghai and Hangzhou High Tech Tour View More 5-Day Shanghai and Hangzhou High Tech Tour View More Discover the Prosperous Jiangnan 8-Day Shanghai, Hangzhou, Suzhou Family Tour View More Discover the Prosperous Jiangnan 8-Day Shanghai, Hangzhou, Suzhou Family Tour View More 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour View More 7-Day Beijing & Xi'an Highlights Tour View More 6-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Longsheng Tour View More 6-Day Guizhou Tour with Mt. Fanjing View More 4-Day Essence of Zhangjiajie Tour View More 7-Day Beijing & Xi'an Highlights Tour View More 7-Day Beijing & Xi'an Highlights Tour View More 6-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Longsheng Tour View More 6-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Longsheng Tour View More 6-Day Guizhou Tour with Mt. Fanjing View More 6-Day Guizhou Tour with Mt. Fanjing View More 4-Day Essence of Zhangjiajie Tour View More 4-Day Essence of Zhangjiajie Tour View More 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour View More 6-Day Xi'an, Luoyang & Shaolin Highlights Tour View More 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour View More 3-Day China's Silicon Valley-Shenzhen Highlights Tour View More 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour View More 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour View More 6-Day Xi'an, Luoyang & Shaolin Highlights Tour View More 6-Day Xi'an, Luoyang & Shaolin Highlights Tour View More 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour View More 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour View More 3-Day China's Silicon Valley-Shenzhen Highlights Tour View More 3-Day China's Silicon Valley-Shenzhen Highlights Tour View More Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights 2-3 Weeks' Scenic China Tours 11-Day China Classic Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More Popular China Destinations Here are the most popular destinations for a China tour picked by the 90% of our clients from Singapore. Click for more information about each destination and tours there. Beijing 5-Day Beijing Family Tour Chongqing 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour Silk Road 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Chengdu 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Mt. Emei Tour Yunnan 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Inner Mongolia 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience Xiamen 5 Days Fujian Scenic and Cultural Tour Xinjiang 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas More Destinations Xi'an, Shanghai, Guilin, Zhangjiajie, Jiuzhaigou, Huangshan, Harbin, Tibet, Hangzhou, Suzhou Frequently Asked Questions about China Trip Expand All 1. Can you provide bilingual Chinese-English guides for my child to practice Chinese? Yes, our guides are local Chinese who can speak both Chinese and English. If you can inform us of your and your child's Chinese proficiency, it will help us arrange a more suitable guide for you. 2. Can guides engage my child with interactive questions instead of just talking for an hour? For family groups with children, we prefer to arrange guides who enjoy and are skilled at interacting with kids. Additionally, most of our guides are parents themselves and can empathize with parental feelings. 3. Can you provide a wheelchair for elderly members in our group? In most cities, we have wheelchairs available as backups. Generally, it's not a problem to arrange them if booked in advance. We will also arrange suitable vehicles that can accommodate wheelchairs to ensure comfort. If you need us to hire someone specifically to assist with the wheelchair, please let us know. 4. What vehicle will you provide for our luggage (one large and one small suitcase per person)? We will arrange a suitable vehicle based on the number of people in your group and the amount of luggage, generally maintaining at least a 30% seat availability. If you have specific vehicle requirements, please let us know. 5. What are the daily service hours? Can the guide recommend dinner spots and join us at the night market afterward? Typically, the service time for a day is 8 hours, usually starting at 9 AM and ending at 5 PM. If you wish to start earlier or later, the guide will communicate with you about the specific timing. Generally, after the day's itinerary, the guide and driver can take you to the restaurant. Longer service hours will incur additional service fees, typically CNY 100-200 per hour. 6. Are there high-altitude areas in the itinerary? What should we do about altitude sickness? Generally, areas above 2,500 meters (about 8,200 feet) may cause some individuals to experience symptoms of altitude sickness. If you feel any discomfort, please promptly inform your guide or travel advisor. Our guides in high-altitude areas are very experienced in this regard and will provide timely assistance. 7. Can I change or cancel my booking? What is the cancellation policy? You can make some changes according to your needs even after booking. In the event of a cancellation, you enjoy 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights prior to 3 weeks before departure. The cancellation fee will be calculated as follows except specified by your travel advisor: Cancellation received prior to 22 days before departure: 100 % refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 15 to 21 days before departure: 70% refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 8 to 14 days before departure: 50% refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 0 to 7 days before departure: no refund. No-show travelers will be charged 100% of the payment. After the trip has commenced, no refund for unused services due to your unwillingness/inability to participate, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. The terms for cancellation for tours of more than 10 people may vary from case to case. Please ask you travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for a group of over 10 people. 8. Can we communicate via WeChat or WhatsApp? Who do I contact for help during the trip? Our travel advisors are very happy to communicate with you via WeChat or WhatsApp, as we believe this enhances communication efficiency. If you need assistance, please feel free to contact your advisor or guide. If you cannot reach your travel advisor or guide, you can contact our customer care line (Tel. +86 176 0773 6087). 9. Can you arrange vegetarian dining options? Major cities have many vegetarian restaurants to choose from, and the guide will provide recommendations. If there are no vegetarian restaurants in some areas, the guide will assist you in ordering vegetarian options or prepare meals that meet your requirements in advance. 10. How do we get train tickets, and will the guide assist us with boarding? Is there enough time? You won't need to pick up physical tickets; just show your passport when you enter the station. Generally, different cities will have different guides serving you, as local guides can better understand the local culture. The guide will take you to the station entrance and instruct you on how to board the train. When disembarking, we recommend that you prepare your luggage at least 5 minutes in advance and wait by the door. If you need the guide to help you board the train or accompany you on the train, we will do our best to accommodate this, which will require purchasing a train ticket for the guide and incur additional guide service fees. 2-3 Weeks' Scenic China Tours 11-Day China Classic Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 11-Day China Classic Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 11-Day China Classic Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Guilin, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Guilin, and Shanghai 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai Popular China Destinations Here are the most popular destinations for a China tour picked by the 90% of our clients from Singapore. Click for more information about each destination and tours there. Beijing 5-Day Beijing Family Tour Chongqing 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour Silk Road 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Chengdu 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Mt. Emei Tour Beijing 5-Day Beijing Family Tour 5-Day Beijing Family Tour • 5-Day Beijing Family Tour Chongqing 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour • 5-Day Chongqing and Yangtze River Cruise Tour Silk Road 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar • 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Chengdu 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Mt. Emei Tour 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Mt. Emei Tour • 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Mt. Emei Tour Yunnan 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Inner Mongolia 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience Xiamen 5 Days Fujian Scenic and Cultural Tour Xinjiang 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas Yunnan 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour • 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Inner Mongolia 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience • 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience Xiamen 5 Days Fujian Scenic and Cultural Tour 5 Days Fujian Scenic and Cultural Tour • 5 Days Fujian Scenic and Cultural Tour Xinjiang 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas • 8-Day North Xinjiang Tour with Kanas • Xi'an, Shanghai, Guilin, Zhangjiajie, Jiuzhaigou, Huangshan, Harbin, Tibet, Hangzhou, Suzhou Frequently Asked Questions about China Trip Expand All 1. Can you provide bilingual Chinese-English guides for my child to practice Chinese? Yes, our guides are local Chinese who can speak both Chinese and English. If you can inform us of your and your child's Chinese proficiency, it will help us arrange a more suitable guide for you. 2. Can guides engage my child with interactive questions instead of just talking for an hour? For family groups with children, we prefer to arrange guides who enjoy and are skilled at interacting with kids. Additionally, most of our guides are parents themselves and can empathize with parental feelings. 3. Can you provide a wheelchair for elderly members in our group? In most cities, we have wheelchairs available as backups. Generally, it's not a problem to arrange them if booked in advance. We will also arrange suitable vehicles that can accommodate wheelchairs to ensure comfort. If you need us to hire someone specifically to assist with the wheelchair, please let us know. 4. What vehicle will you provide for our luggage (one large and one small suitcase per person)? We will arrange a suitable vehicle based on the number of people in your group and the amount of luggage, generally maintaining at least a 30% seat availability. If you have specific vehicle requirements, please let us know. 5. What are the daily service hours? Can the guide recommend dinner spots and join us at the night market afterward? Typically, the service time for a day is 8 hours, usually starting at 9 AM and ending at 5 PM. If you wish to start earlier or later, the guide will communicate with you about the specific timing. Generally, after the day's itinerary, the guide and driver can take you to the restaurant. Longer service hours will incur additional service fees, typically CNY 100-200 per hour. 6. Are there high-altitude areas in the itinerary? What should we do about altitude sickness? Generally, areas above 2,500 meters (about 8,200 feet) may cause some individuals to experience symptoms of altitude sickness. If you feel any discomfort, please promptly inform your guide or travel advisor. Our guides in high-altitude areas are very experienced in this regard and will provide timely assistance. 7. Can I change or cancel my booking? What is the cancellation policy? You can make some changes according to your needs even after booking. In the event of a cancellation, you enjoy 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights prior to 3 weeks before departure. The cancellation fee will be calculated as follows except specified by your travel advisor: Cancellation received prior to 22 days before departure: 100 % refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 15 to 21 days before departure: 70% refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 8 to 14 days before departure: 50% refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 0 to 7 days before departure: no refund. No-show travelers will be charged 100% of the payment. After the trip has commenced, no refund for unused services due to your unwillingness/inability to participate, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. The terms for cancellation for tours of more than 10 people may vary from case to case. Please ask you travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for a group of over 10 people. 8. Can we communicate via WeChat or WhatsApp? Who do I contact for help during the trip? Our travel advisors are very happy to communicate with you via WeChat or WhatsApp, as we believe this enhances communication efficiency. If you need assistance, please feel free to contact your advisor or guide. If you cannot reach your travel advisor or guide, you can contact our customer care line (Tel. +86 176 0773 6087). 9. Can you arrange vegetarian dining options? Major cities have many vegetarian restaurants to choose from, and the guide will provide recommendations. If there are no vegetarian restaurants in some areas, the guide will assist you in ordering vegetarian options or prepare meals that meet your requirements in advance. 10. How do we get train tickets, and will the guide assist us with boarding? Is there enough time? You won't need to pick up physical tickets; just show your passport when you enter the station. Generally, different cities will have different guides serving you, as local guides can better understand the local culture. The guide will take you to the station entrance and instruct you on how to board the train. When disembarking, we recommend that you prepare your luggage at least 5 minutes in advance and wait by the door. If you need the guide to help you board the train or accompany you on the train, we will do our best to accommodate this, which will require purchasing a train ticket for the guide and incur additional guide service fees. 1. Can you provide bilingual Chinese-English guides for my child to practice Chinese? Yes, our guides are local Chinese who can speak both Chinese and English. If you can inform us of your and your child's Chinese proficiency, it will help us arrange a more suitable guide for you. Yes, our guides are local Chinese who can speak both Chinese and English. If you can inform us of your and your child's Chinese proficiency, it will help us arrange a more suitable guide for you. 2. Can guides engage my child with interactive questions instead of just talking for an hour? For family groups with children, we prefer to arrange guides who enjoy and are skilled at interacting with kids. Additionally, most of our guides are parents themselves and can empathize with parental feelings. For family groups with children, we prefer to arrange guides who enjoy and are skilled at interacting with kids. Additionally, most of our guides are parents themselves and can empathize with parental feelings. 3. Can you provide a wheelchair for elderly members in our group? In most cities, we have wheelchairs available as backups. Generally, it's not a problem to arrange them if booked in advance. We will also arrange suitable vehicles that can accommodate wheelchairs to ensure comfort. If you need us to hire someone specifically to assist with the wheelchair, please let us know. In most cities, we have wheelchairs available as backups. Generally, it's not a problem to arrange them if booked in advance. We will also arrange suitable vehicles that can accommodate wheelchairs to ensure comfort. If you need us to hire someone specifically to assist with the wheelchair, please let us know. 4. What vehicle will you provide for our luggage (one large and one small suitcase per person)? We will arrange a suitable vehicle based on the number of people in your group and the amount of luggage, generally maintaining at least a 30% seat availability. If you have specific vehicle requirements, please let us know. We will arrange a suitable vehicle based on the number of people in your group and the amount of luggage, generally maintaining at least a 30% seat availability. If you have specific vehicle requirements, please let us know. 5. What are the daily service hours? Can the guide recommend dinner spots and join us at the night market afterward? Typically, the service time for a day is 8 hours, usually starting at 9 AM and ending at 5 PM. If you wish to start earlier or later, the guide will communicate with you about the specific timing. Generally, after the day's itinerary, the guide and driver can take you to the restaurant. Longer service hours will incur additional service fees, typically CNY 100-200 per hour. Typically, the service time for a day is 8 hours, usually starting at 9 AM and ending at 5 PM. If you wish to start earlier or later, the guide will communicate with you about the specific timing. Generally, after the day's itinerary, the guide and driver can take you to the restaurant. Longer service hours will incur additional service fees, typically CNY 100-200 per hour. 6. Are there high-altitude areas in the itinerary? What should we do about altitude sickness? Generally, areas above 2,500 meters (about 8,200 feet) may cause some individuals to experience symptoms of altitude sickness. If you feel any discomfort, please promptly inform your guide or travel advisor. Our guides in high-altitude areas are very experienced in this regard and will provide timely assistance. Generally, areas above 2,500 meters (about 8,200 feet) may cause some individuals to experience symptoms of altitude sickness. If you feel any discomfort, please promptly inform your guide or travel advisor. Our guides in high-altitude areas are very experienced in this regard and will provide timely assistance. 7. Can I change or cancel my booking? What is the cancellation policy? You can make some changes according to your needs even after booking. In the event of a cancellation, you enjoy 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights prior to 3 weeks before departure. The cancellation fee will be calculated as follows except specified by your travel advisor: Cancellation received prior to 22 days before departure: 100 % refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 15 to 21 days before departure: 70% refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 8 to 14 days before departure: 50% refund of all monies paid. Cancellation received from 0 to 7 days before departure: no refund. No-show travelers will be charged 100% of the payment. After the trip has commenced, no refund for unused services due to your unwillingness/inability to participate, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. The terms for cancellation for tours of more than 10 people may vary from case to case. Please ask you travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for a group of over 10 people. You can make some changes according to your needs even after booking. In the event of a cancellation, you enjoy 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights prior to 3 weeks before departure. The cancellation fee will be calculated as follows except specified by your travel advisor: • Cancellation received prior to 22 days before departure: 100 % refund of all monies paid. • Cancellation received from 15 to 21 days before departure: 70% refund of all monies paid. • Cancellation received from 8 to 14 days before departure: 50% refund of all monies paid. • Cancellation received from 0 to 7 days before departure: no refund. • No-show travelers will be charged 100% of the payment. • After the trip has commenced, no refund for unused services due to your unwillingness/inability to participate, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. The terms for cancellation for tours of more than 10 people may vary from case to case. Please ask you travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for a group of over 10 people. 8. Can we communicate via WeChat or WhatsApp? Who do I contact for help during the trip? Our travel advisors are very happy to communicate with you via WeChat or WhatsApp, as we believe this enhances communication efficiency. If you need assistance, please feel free to contact your advisor or guide. If you cannot reach your travel advisor or guide, you can contact our customer care line (Tel. +86 176 0773 6087). Our travel advisors are very happy to communicate with you via WeChat or WhatsApp, as we believe this enhances communication efficiency. If you need assistance, please feel free to contact your advisor or guide. If you cannot reach your travel advisor or guide, you can contact our customer care line (Tel. +86 176 0773 6087). 9. Can you arrange vegetarian dining options? Major cities have many vegetarian restaurants to choose from, and the guide will provide recommendations. If there are no vegetarian restaurants in some areas, the guide will assist you in ordering vegetarian options or prepare meals that meet your requirements in advance. Major cities have many vegetarian restaurants to choose from, and the guide will provide recommendations. If there are no vegetarian restaurants in some areas, the guide will assist you in ordering vegetarian options or prepare meals that meet your requirements in advance. 10. How do we get train tickets, and will the guide assist us with boarding? Is there enough time? You won't need to pick up physical tickets; just show your passport when you enter the station. Generally, different cities will have different guides serving you, as local guides can better understand the local culture. The guide will take you to the station entrance and instruct you on how to board the train. When disembarking, we recommend that you prepare your luggage at least 5 minutes in advance and wait by the door. If you need the guide to help you board the train or accompany you on the train, we will do our best to accommodate this, which will require purchasing a train ticket for the guide and incur additional guide service fees. You won't need to pick up physical tickets; just show your passport when you enter the station. Generally, different cities will have different guides serving you, as local guides can better understand the local culture. The guide will take you to the station entrance and instruct you on how to board the train. When disembarking, we recommend that you prepare your luggage at least 5 minutes in advance and wait by the door. If you need the guide to help you board the train or accompany you on the train, we will do our best to accommodate this, which will require purchasing a train ticket for the guide and incur additional guide service fees.