ID: 7bd09d01c5f1ce7e
Title: Xi'an Transportation: Flights, Train, Bus to/from Xi'an
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xian/transportation.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Xi'an, in addition to being a popular tourist destination, has an extensive transport network that makes it possible for tourists to access almost all major attractions. There are almost unlimited choices with regard to means of transport when traveling to, from and around the city. In addition, it is well connected to other major towns and cities for those interested in China inter-city tours. Getting to/from Xi'an by Air Xi'an is served by a dozen of airlines to and from major tourist stops such as Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Urumqi. See our Round Day Trip from Beijing to Xi'an by flight for some inspiration. The major airport, Xianyang Airport, is 45 kilometers from the city. It is also served by international flights to and from Hong Kong, Macau and Japan. Transport from the Airport Xi'an Xianyang Airport Use the airport taxis and buses to go to the town from the airport. You are advised to use public means or renowned private tours when traveling directly from the airport to cities or attractions far away instead of using taxis to avoid being a victim of the many scams involved. There are intercity buses that leave the airport for cities around Shaanxi Province. You can use the following shuttle buses from Xianyang Airport to reach the Bell Tower and other nearby attractions or destinations. Airport Shuttle Line 2 will take you to Xi'an Railway Station (note that this is different from Xi'an North Railway Station) directly from the airport or vice versa. Airport Shuttle Bus Route Fare Duration Operation Time Airport ↔ Xi'an Railway Station 25 RMB 1 hr 7 am to 7 pm from railway station 8:30 am to 8:30 pm from the airport Airport ↔ Xi'an High Technology Industries Development Zone 25 RMB 1.5 hr Airport to Ziction Liberal Hotel from 8:20 am to 8:50 pm Liberal Hotel to Airport tel 7:15 and 6:15 pm Airport ↔ Tangcheng Hotel ↔ Oriental Hotel ↔ Big Wild Goose Pagoda 25 RMB 1.5 hr 7 am to 6 pm Airport ↔ North Railway Station 25 RMB half an hour 8 am to 9 pm Airport ↔ Xishaomen 25 RMB 1 hr Airport to Xishaomen from 6 am to 6:30 pm Xishanmen to Airport from 8:20 am to 8:50 pm Airport ↔ Chanba Ecological District 25 RMB 1 hr Airport to Chanba from 8:30 am and 4:30 pm Chanba to Airport from 8 am and 6 pm Airport ↔ Xianyang City 15 RMB 1 hr 7 am and 6 pm from Xianyang City side up to 8:30 pm from airport side • 3-Day Essence of Xi'an Tour • 12-Day When Your Summer Vacation Meets Chinese Culture Getting to/from Xi'an by Train Train is a good way to have comfortable inter-city tours from Xi'an to Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Wuhan, among other towns/cities. There are two main railway stations in Xi'an: Xi'an Railway Station and Xi'an North Railway Station. • Xi'an Railway Station: Normal trains are boarded at Xi'an Railway Station, located at the end of north end of Jiefang Road. The foreigners tickets office is on the south side of the Xi'an station on the second floor, and is open daily from 8:30 to 11:30 am and from 2:30 - 5:30 pm. • Xi'an North Railway Station: Fast trains are from Xi'an North Railway Station, 10 kilometers north of Xi'an's north gate. It is possible to take a bullet train from Beijing to Xi'an in 5 hours. It is convenient for travelers to visit the Terracotta Army from Beijing. It is a much cost-efficient and time-saving option compared to flight. If you would like to take a side trip to Mount Hua, you can take a bullet train to go there within one hour. High-speed Trains between Xi'an and Major Cities It is convenient to travel by train from Xi'an to major cities like Beijing, Guangzhou, Nanjing, and Shanghai. A high-speed train (G train and D train) is a good option in terms of speed, facilities, and service. If you are interested in experiencing bullet train in China, tell us and we are glad to arrange it into your tour. From To Travel Time by High-speed Trains Xi'an Beijing 5–6 h Shanghai 6½–7 h Shenzhen 9–10 h Guangzhou 7–9 h Nanjing 5–6 h Huashan ½ h • 1-DayXi'an Highlights Tour • 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Xi'an City Transportation - Metro, Bus, Taxi and bicycle Tourists also use the Xi'an Metro System to access attractions such as the Ancient City Wall, Big Wild Goose, and further away attractions such as Banpo Museum, a prehistoric Chinese archaeological site. Line 1 and Line 2 are the main lines of the Xi'an Metro System and their schedules are as follows. Line 3 is now complete and more lines are under construction. See our Xi'an Metro Map. Line Main attractions (destinations) they take tourists to Fare Operation Time Line 1 Xi'an Station (Wulukou 五路口) Xi'an's Ancient City Wall The Banpo Museum 2-5 yuan 6.10 a.m to 11.17 p.m Line 2 Xi'an North Railway Station (北客站) Shaanxi History Museum (discover Xi'an's glory-day relics in Tang-style buildings) Big Wild Goose Pagoda, Small Wild Goose Pagoda Muslim Street (popular for snacks) The Bell Tower and The Drum Tower, Shaanxi Museum of Nature, etc. 2-5 yuan 6.10 a.m to 11.15 p.m Taking a public bus is very efficient and cost-effective for nearby local attractions within the city. A popular route for tourists is the #610 ("游8" in Chinese - meaning "tourist number eight"). The route connects to and from the Xi'an railway station, the Bell Tower, the Small Goose Pagoda and Xi'an Museum, the Shaanxi Historic Museum and the Big Goose Pagoda, which are popular attraction sites around the city. Bus 306 boarded at the Xi'an station (the public ones are boarded from outside not inside the city wall) takes tourists to the Terracotta Warrior Army Museum, Huaqing Palace and hot springs at the foot of Li Shan in Lintong County. Alternatively, use number 914 and 915 to got to the Terracotta Army. Bus number 42 also goes to the Banpo Village Ruins and Shaanxi Historic Museum. Bus 611 is a more frequent option to connect to the Bell Tower from the train station and a good alternative to line number 609. Tourists also use the Tourism Bus Line 1 boarded at the Xi'an Railway Station to go to attractions far away from town such as Huashan Mountain. Long distance bus stations in Xi'an are Xi'an Bus Station, Nanguan Bus Station and the East City Bus Station. The other option is taking a bus at the Shaanxi Province Long-distance Bus Station, which is 100 m from Xi'an railway station. • 4-Day Xi'an and Huashan Mountain Tour • 3-Day Beijing to Xi'an by High-Speed Rail Taxis and private transport are very efficient for far-away-from-the-city attractions, such as the Terracotta Warriors and Mount Hua. Taxis in Xi'an are not as well regulated as in other big cities, and the drivers may try to scam tourists who generally don't know what the money looks like, the travel routes, and other ways of being tricked. It takes about 1 hour to drive to the Terracotta Army from Xi'an's airport, 50 minutes to reach Xi'an Train Station and 50 minutes to reach the Bell Tower by car. Our private transport (with a guide for all your questions and translation needs) offers a far more reliable and fulfilling alternative to taxis. Contact us to make arrangements. Cycling on the Xi'an Ancient City Wall is popular. A fortunate thing for tourists is that major attractions (with the exception of the Terracotta Warriors) are bunched together. Hence it is possible to access them using bikes, especially so because there are bike lanes on some streets. Bicycles are the best for visiting attractions in central Xi'an including the Drum Tower, the City Wall, and the Bell Tower. Cycling on the Xi'an Ancient City Wall is particularly popular. For tourists, there are a number of bikes available for rent to cycle around the wall (it's distance is 13.7 kilometers, height is 12 meters tall and is 15 meters-wide wall on top. It is the largest city wall in the world). • 1-DayXi'an Highlights Tour • 12-Day When Your Summer Vacation Meets Chinese Culture • 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Xi'an Transport is Optimal with China Highlights We help you avoid all the problems of public transportation in Xi'an, from exposure to counterfeit money, to getting lost, to fake rides by rogue drivers. Tour Xi'an with China Highlights In addition, each tour can be customized to your needs. Here are some recommended tours. • A 3-day essence Xi'an tour takes you to major attractions around the city such as Shaanxi History Museum, the Terracotta Warriors, and the Big Wild Goose Pagoda. • 3-Day Xi'an Foodie Adventure including more historical sites like Terracotta Warriors and Ancient City Wall. • An 11-day CLASSIC WONDERS private tour will take you to major attractions in various Chinese cities - the Great Wall of China in Beijing, the Terracotta warriors in Xi'an, the beautiful Li River in Guilin, and the electric skyline of modern Shanghai. • How to plan Xi'an tour • Top Things to Do in Xi'an • Ultimate Xi'an Itineraries: How Long to Spend in Xi'an