ID: 7f12c9ee61de9c07
Title: Lijiang Tours 2026: Old Towns, Naxi Culture, Hiking...
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/lijiang/tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Lijiang, enjoying the accolade "the pearl on the Yunnan plateau", is the destination not to miss on a Yunnan tour and the favorite place of American explorer, Josher Rock. Lijiang could be "a gentle woman", touching your heart with its romantic old towns and peaceful Lugu Lake. Or it could be "a handsome man", inviting you to hike along the magnificent Tiger Leaping Gorge and up Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. If you are interested in minority culture, let's talk to a shaman of the Naxi ethnic minority, listen to a piece of Naxi music, and taste the Naxi pancakes. How to Plan Your Lijiang Tour? Click to know more. The best times to visit Lijiang are from late March to May and October to November. These periods are drier and sunny with comfortable temperatures, when most of the time Jade Dragon Snow Mountain can be seen from the ancient town of Lijiang. It is also relatively mild in winter but the vegetation changes to leafless or drought colors. Transportation to Lijiang is more convenient than all other Yunnan cities except Kunming. There are direct flights from Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Shenzhen, and Kunming. Bullet trains connect with Kunming, and it will be connected with Shangri-La, Lugu Lake, and Chengdu by bullet trains in the near future. Two nights or three days is recommended for an essential Lijiang tour. You can cover all the highlights of Lijiang in a 3-day tour. If you would like to go deeper, for example do some hiking in Tiger Leaping Gorge or on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, one or two more nights are needed. You can easily combine it with other cities in Yunnan. No matter whether you want to go to Lijiang for a relaxing break, a memorable adventure, or a cultural exploration, we are happy to customize a Lijiang tour according to your interests and schedule. Top Recommended Lijiang Tours The suggested itineraries for a Lijiang tour below will give you some inspiration. Please feel free to contact us if you would like to tailor-make any of them or create a trip according to your ideas. Essence of Ancient Lijiang 3-Day Lijiang Tour Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Mysterious Naxi civilization View more Pilgrimage to Joseph Rock's Favorite Mountain 1-Day Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Hiking Tour View more Explore One of the Greatest Gorges in China 3-Day Lijiang and Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking View more Yunnan Tours including Lijiang Here are the recommended Yunnan tours including Lijiang. We are happy to combine any other destinations with Lijiang according to your interests to create your Yunnan trip. The Legend of a Lake and People 3-Day Lugu Lake Tour Romantic Lake Matriarchal Mosuo People View more An Exceptional Adventure in Northwest Yunnan 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Tour View more A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour> View more Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Mountains and Old Towns Ethnic Minorities View more Yunnan Ethnic Minorities Tour 6-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Tour View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us Other Popular Destinations in Yunnan Here are the other popular cities for a Yunnan tour. Click to get more information about each destination and tours Kunming Stone Forest.Dianchi Lake Dali Cangshan Mountain.Erhai Lake Shangri-La Songanlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery Lijiang, enjoying the accolade "the pearl on the Yunnan plateau", is the destination not to miss on a Yunnan tour and the favorite place of American explorer, Josher Rock. Lijiang could be "a gentle woman", touching your heart with its romantic old towns and peaceful Lugu Lake. Or it could be "a handsome man", inviting you to hike along the magnificent Tiger Leaping Gorge and up Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. If you are interested in minority culture, let's talk to a shaman of the Naxi ethnic minority, listen to a piece of Naxi music, and taste the Naxi pancakes. How to Plan Your Lijiang Tour? Click to know more. The best times to visit Lijiang are from late March to May and October to November. These periods are drier and sunny with comfortable temperatures, when most of the time Jade Dragon Snow Mountain can be seen from the ancient town of Lijiang. It is also relatively mild in winter but the vegetation changes to leafless or drought colors. Transportation to Lijiang is more convenient than all other Yunnan cities except Kunming. There are direct flights from Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Shenzhen, and Kunming. Bullet trains connect with Kunming, and it will be connected with Shangri-La, Lugu Lake, and Chengdu by bullet trains in the near future. Two nights or three days is recommended for an essential Lijiang tour. You can cover all the highlights of Lijiang in a 3-day tour. If you would like to go deeper, for example do some hiking in Tiger Leaping Gorge or on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, one or two more nights are needed. You can easily combine it with other cities in Yunnan. How to Plan Your Lijiang Tour? Click to know more. The best times to visit Lijiang are from late March to May and October to November. These periods are drier and sunny with comfortable temperatures, when most of the time Jade Dragon Snow Mountain can be seen from the ancient town of Lijiang. It is also relatively mild in winter but the vegetation changes to leafless or drought colors. Transportation to Lijiang is more convenient than all other Yunnan cities except Kunming. There are direct flights from Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Shenzhen, and Kunming. Bullet trains connect with Kunming, and it will be connected with Shangri-La, Lugu Lake, and Chengdu by bullet trains in the near future. Two nights or three days is recommended for an essential Lijiang tour. You can cover all the highlights of Lijiang in a 3-day tour. If you would like to go deeper, for example do some hiking in Tiger Leaping Gorge or on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, one or two more nights are needed. You can easily combine it with other cities in Yunnan. • The best times to visit Lijiang are from late March to May and October to November. These periods are drier and sunny with comfortable temperatures, when most of the time Jade Dragon Snow Mountain can be seen from the ancient town of Lijiang. It is also relatively mild in winter but the vegetation changes to leafless or drought colors. • Transportation to Lijiang is more convenient than all other Yunnan cities except Kunming. There are direct flights from Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Shenzhen, and Kunming. Bullet trains connect with Kunming, and it will be connected with Shangri-La, Lugu Lake, and Chengdu by bullet trains in the near future. • Two nights or three days is recommended for an essential Lijiang tour. You can cover all the highlights of Lijiang in a 3-day tour. If you would like to go deeper, for example do some hiking in Tiger Leaping Gorge or on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, one or two more nights are needed. You can easily combine it with other cities in Yunnan. No matter whether you want to go to Lijiang for a relaxing break, a memorable adventure, or a cultural exploration, we are happy to customize a Lijiang tour according to your interests and schedule. Top Recommended Lijiang Tours The suggested itineraries for a Lijiang tour below will give you some inspiration. Please feel free to contact us if you would like to tailor-make any of them or create a trip according to your ideas. Essence of Ancient Lijiang 3-Day Lijiang Tour Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Mysterious Naxi civilization View more Essence of Ancient Lijiang 3-Day Lijiang Tour Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Mysterious Naxi civilization View more • Jade Dragon Snow Mountain • Mysterious Naxi civilization Pilgrimage to Joseph Rock's Favorite Mountain 1-Day Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Hiking Tour View more Pilgrimage to Joseph Rock's Favorite Mountain 1-Day Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Hiking Tour View more Explore One of the Greatest Gorges in China 3-Day Lijiang and Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking View more Explore One of the Greatest Gorges in China 3-Day Lijiang and Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking View more Yunnan Tours including Lijiang Here are the recommended Yunnan tours including Lijiang. We are happy to combine any other destinations with Lijiang according to your interests to create your Yunnan trip. The Legend of a Lake and People 3-Day Lugu Lake Tour Romantic Lake Matriarchal Mosuo People View more The Legend of a Lake and People 3-Day Lugu Lake Tour Romantic Lake Matriarchal Mosuo People View more • Romantic Lake • Matriarchal Mosuo People An Exceptional Adventure in Northwest Yunnan 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Tour View more An Exceptional Adventure in Northwest Yunnan 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Tour View more A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour> View more A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour> View more Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Mountains and Old Towns Ethnic Minorities View more Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Mountains and Old Towns Ethnic Minorities View more • Mountains and Old Towns • Ethnic Minorities Yunnan Ethnic Minorities Tour 6-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Tour View more Yunnan Ethnic Minorities Tour 6-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Tour View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Other Popular Destinations in Yunnan Here are the other popular cities for a Yunnan tour. Click to get more information about each destination and tours Kunming Stone Forest.Dianchi Lake Dali Cangshan Mountain.Erhai Lake Shangri-La Songanlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery Kunming Stone Forest.Dianchi Lake Dali Cangshan Mountain.Erhai Lake Shangri-La Songanlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Lijiang Travel Tips Expand All 1. Lijiang Weather Its high altitude and low latitude give Lijiang cooler summers and warmer winters. The rainy season is from June to September. The weather can change several times in a single day and the temperature varies greatly between day and night. Spring (March to May) — starting clear, mild Summer (June to September) — warm and humid Autumn (October to November) — mild and becoming clearer Winter (December to February) — clear and cool Read more 2. Top Things to Do in Lijiang Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The old town of Lijiang has been listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. With spectacular natural scenery, historical sites, and interesting ethnic culture, Lijiang is an attractive destination and hiking area. No matter what you expect from Lijiang, you won't be disappointed. If you would like to experience ethnic life and history, Dayan Ancient Town, Suhe Ancient Town, and Baisha Village are highly recommended. Peaceful Lugu Lake is a wonderland for scenery and the last surviving matriarchal minority. If you are keen on breathtaking landscapes and want to taste some adventure, Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain hiking will be your cup of tea. If you are interested in culture and art, don't miss the chance to talk with a Naxi shaman and the amazing show "Impression Lijiang". Read more 3. Where to Stay in Lijiang InterContinental Lijiang Ancient Town Resort You will always have many options, no matter whether you prefer an international chain hotel or a small boutique hotel with local character. Your accommodation experience in Lijiang could well be another highlight of your Lijiang tour. If you want to feel the romantic local atmosphere and have a colorful night, you could choose to stay in the Dayan or Shuhe ancient towns. If you want to get close to the local people's life and prefer peaceful moments, a hotel in Baisha Village is recommended. If you would like to have a taste of the wilds, enjoy a starry night, and follow in the footsteps of explorer Josher Rock, Yuhu Village at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain is a place where you should like to stay. Expand All 1. Lijiang Weather Its high altitude and low latitude give Lijiang cooler summers and warmer winters. The rainy season is from June to September. The weather can change several times in a single day and the temperature varies greatly between day and night. Spring (March to May) — starting clear, mild Summer (June to September) — warm and humid Autumn (October to November) — mild and becoming clearer Winter (December to February) — clear and cool Read more 2. Top Things to Do in Lijiang Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The old town of Lijiang has been listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. With spectacular natural scenery, historical sites, and interesting ethnic culture, Lijiang is an attractive destination and hiking area. No matter what you expect from Lijiang, you won't be disappointed. If you would like to experience ethnic life and history, Dayan Ancient Town, Suhe Ancient Town, and Baisha Village are highly recommended. Peaceful Lugu Lake is a wonderland for scenery and the last surviving matriarchal minority. If you are keen on breathtaking landscapes and want to taste some adventure, Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain hiking will be your cup of tea. If you are interested in culture and art, don't miss the chance to talk with a Naxi shaman and the amazing show "Impression Lijiang". Read more 3. Where to Stay in Lijiang InterContinental Lijiang Ancient Town Resort You will always have many options, no matter whether you prefer an international chain hotel or a small boutique hotel with local character. Your accommodation experience in Lijiang could well be another highlight of your Lijiang tour. If you want to feel the romantic local atmosphere and have a colorful night, you could choose to stay in the Dayan or Shuhe ancient towns. If you want to get close to the local people's life and prefer peaceful moments, a hotel in Baisha Village is recommended. If you would like to have a taste of the wilds, enjoy a starry night, and follow in the footsteps of explorer Josher Rock, Yuhu Village at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain is a place where you should like to stay. Its high altitude and low latitude give Lijiang cooler summers and warmer winters. The rainy season is from June to September. The weather can change several times in a single day and the temperature varies greatly between day and night. Spring (March to May) — starting clear, mild Summer (June to September) — warm and humid Autumn (October to November) — mild and becoming clearer Winter (December to February) — clear and cool Read more Its high altitude and low latitude give Lijiang cooler summers and warmer winters. The rainy season is from June to September. The weather can change several times in a single day and the temperature varies greatly between day and night. • Spring (March to May) — starting clear, mild • Summer (June to September) — warm and humid • Autumn (October to November) — mild and becoming clearer • Winter (December to February) — clear and cool 2. Top Things to Do in Lijiang Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The old town of Lijiang has been listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. With spectacular natural scenery, historical sites, and interesting ethnic culture, Lijiang is an attractive destination and hiking area. No matter what you expect from Lijiang, you won't be disappointed. If you would like to experience ethnic life and history, Dayan Ancient Town, Suhe Ancient Town, and Baisha Village are highly recommended. Peaceful Lugu Lake is a wonderland for scenery and the last surviving matriarchal minority. If you are keen on breathtaking landscapes and want to taste some adventure, Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain hiking will be your cup of tea. If you are interested in culture and art, don't miss the chance to talk with a Naxi shaman and the amazing show "Impression Lijiang". Read more Jade Dragon Snow Mountain The old town of Lijiang has been listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. With spectacular natural scenery, historical sites, and interesting ethnic culture, Lijiang is an attractive destination and hiking area. No matter what you expect from Lijiang, you won't be disappointed. If you would like to experience ethnic life and history, Dayan Ancient Town, Suhe Ancient Town, and Baisha Village are highly recommended. Peaceful Lugu Lake is a wonderland for scenery and the last surviving matriarchal minority. If you are keen on breathtaking landscapes and want to taste some adventure, Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain hiking will be your cup of tea. If you are interested in culture and art, don't miss the chance to talk with a Naxi shaman and the amazing show "Impression Lijiang". Read more 3. Where to Stay in Lijiang InterContinental Lijiang Ancient Town Resort You will always have many options, no matter whether you prefer an international chain hotel or a small boutique hotel with local character. Your accommodation experience in Lijiang could well be another highlight of your Lijiang tour. If you want to feel the romantic local atmosphere and have a colorful night, you could choose to stay in the Dayan or Shuhe ancient towns. If you want to get close to the local people's life and prefer peaceful moments, a hotel in Baisha Village is recommended. If you would like to have a taste of the wilds, enjoy a starry night, and follow in the footsteps of explorer Josher Rock, Yuhu Village at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain is a place where you should like to stay. InterContinental Lijiang Ancient Town Resort You will always have many options, no matter whether you prefer an international chain hotel or a small boutique hotel with local character. Your accommodation experience in Lijiang could well be another highlight of your Lijiang tour. If you want to feel the romantic local atmosphere and have a colorful night, you could choose to stay in the Dayan or Shuhe ancient towns. If you want to get close to the local people's life and prefer peaceful moments, a hotel in Baisha Village is recommended. If you would like to have a taste of the wilds, enjoy a starry night, and follow in the footsteps of explorer Josher Rock, Yuhu Village at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain is a place where you should like to stay.