ID: 2bd9d34cbe6d344f
Title: Half-day Chongqing Walking: Shancheng Lane or Huangge Road
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chongqing/half-day-walking-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Taking this tour to experience the rich history and culture of Chongqing. There are two optional iconic experiences for you to choose. One is Mountain City Alley, where you can explore the vibrant cliff alleys and experience the fusion of Bayu culture and the charm of old Chongqing. The other one is Huangge Ancient Road, a hidden gem that offers a stroll along a tranquil 800-year-old stone path shaded by banyan trees. Tour Highlights Immerse yourself in the history and local life-style in Chongqing. Relax in a traditional tea house and enjoy a captivating folkloric show. Taste a Chongqing special local dessert, Bingfen. Accompanioned with a Local professional English-speaking guide. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:30 - 11:30am Mountain City Lane We will meet at the Exit 1 of Qixinggang Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to Shancheng Lane. Continue along the trail and learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. At the end of tour, you will taste a special Bing Fen (Ice Jelly) which is only available in Chongqing. shanchengxiang shanchengxiang Our tour ends at the Jiaochangkou subway station around 11:30 AM. You can easily take light railway back to your hotel or other places. Chongqing Shancheng Lane is known as Chongqing's "Architecture Museum". The museum preserves the old city wall built in the early Ming Dynasty, foreign consulates and churches when Chongqing was founded in the late Qing Dynasty, stilt houses, courtyard houses, air-raid shelters during the Anti-Japanese War, stone gate buildings on the seaside, as well as schools and houses built in different periods after the founding of New China. shanchengxiang 8:30 - 12:30 am Huangge Ancient Road We will meet at Exit 3C of Shanghao Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to the trail. Along the way, pass Ming-Qing era stone carvings, hidden temples, and nostalgic tea houses, all while enjoying skyline glimpses of the Yangtze River. The trail ends near Nanshan’s viewpoints, where you can refuel with local mountain cuisine. A serene escape blending history, nature, and urban vistas. Our tour ends at the Huangjueya Ancient Street around 12:30 AM. You can easily take taxi or public bus back to your hotel or other places. Huangge Ancient Road is one of the most scenic and historic ancient roads in Chongqing, with its history dating back to the Tang and Song dynasties. This tranquil 2-3 km stone path winds through the lush Nan'an area, shaded by century-old banyan trees (Ficus virens, locally known as "Huangge"). Once a key section of the Ancient Tea Horse Road connecting Sichuan and Guizhou, this area now offers an easy 3-hour hike with moderate elevation gain, perfect for light adventurers. huangge Know Before You Book Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Shancheng Alley: Tea house with face changing show, Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). Huangge Ancient Road: Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Lunch. Gratuities (recommended). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Taking this tour to experience the rich history and culture of Chongqing. There are two optional iconic experiences for you to choose. One is Mountain City Alley, where you can explore the vibrant cliff alleys and experience the fusion of Bayu culture and the charm of old Chongqing. The other one is Huangge Ancient Road, a hidden gem that offers a stroll along a tranquil 800-year-old stone path shaded by banyan trees. Taking this tour to experience the rich history and culture of Chongqing. There are two optional iconic experiences for you to choose. One is Mountain City Alley, where you can explore the vibrant cliff alleys and experience the fusion of Bayu culture and the charm of old Chongqing. The other one is Huangge Ancient Road, a hidden gem that offers a stroll along a tranquil 800-year-old stone path shaded by banyan trees. Tour Highlights Immerse yourself in the history and local life-style in Chongqing. Relax in a traditional tea house and enjoy a captivating folkloric show. Taste a Chongqing special local dessert, Bingfen. Accompanioned with a Local professional English-speaking guide. • Immerse yourself in the history and local life-style in Chongqing. • Relax in a traditional tea house and enjoy a captivating folkloric show. • Taste a Chongqing special local dessert, Bingfen. • Accompanioned with a Local professional English-speaking guide. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:30 - 11:30am Mountain City Lane We will meet at the Exit 1 of Qixinggang Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to Shancheng Lane. Continue along the trail and learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. At the end of tour, you will taste a special Bing Fen (Ice Jelly) which is only available in Chongqing. shanchengxiang shanchengxiang Our tour ends at the Jiaochangkou subway station around 11:30 AM. You can easily take light railway back to your hotel or other places. Chongqing Shancheng Lane is known as Chongqing's "Architecture Museum". The museum preserves the old city wall built in the early Ming Dynasty, foreign consulates and churches when Chongqing was founded in the late Qing Dynasty, stilt houses, courtyard houses, air-raid shelters during the Anti-Japanese War, stone gate buildings on the seaside, as well as schools and houses built in different periods after the founding of New China. shanchengxiang 8:30 - 12:30 am Huangge Ancient Road We will meet at Exit 3C of Shanghao Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to the trail. Along the way, pass Ming-Qing era stone carvings, hidden temples, and nostalgic tea houses, all while enjoying skyline glimpses of the Yangtze River. The trail ends near Nanshan’s viewpoints, where you can refuel with local mountain cuisine. A serene escape blending history, nature, and urban vistas. Our tour ends at the Huangjueya Ancient Street around 12:30 AM. You can easily take taxi or public bus back to your hotel or other places. Huangge Ancient Road is one of the most scenic and historic ancient roads in Chongqing, with its history dating back to the Tang and Song dynasties. This tranquil 2-3 km stone path winds through the lush Nan'an area, shaded by century-old banyan trees (Ficus virens, locally known as "Huangge"). Once a key section of the Ancient Tea Horse Road connecting Sichuan and Guizhou, this area now offers an easy 3-hour hike with moderate elevation gain, perfect for light adventurers. huangge Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:30 - 11:30am Mountain City Lane We will meet at the Exit 1 of Qixinggang Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to Shancheng Lane. Continue along the trail and learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. At the end of tour, you will taste a special Bing Fen (Ice Jelly) which is only available in Chongqing. shanchengxiang shanchengxiang Our tour ends at the Jiaochangkou subway station around 11:30 AM. You can easily take light railway back to your hotel or other places. Chongqing Shancheng Lane is known as Chongqing's "Architecture Museum". The museum preserves the old city wall built in the early Ming Dynasty, foreign consulates and churches when Chongqing was founded in the late Qing Dynasty, stilt houses, courtyard houses, air-raid shelters during the Anti-Japanese War, stone gate buildings on the seaside, as well as schools and houses built in different periods after the founding of New China. shanchengxiang 8:30 - 12:30 am Huangge Ancient Road We will meet at Exit 3C of Shanghao Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to the trail. Along the way, pass Ming-Qing era stone carvings, hidden temples, and nostalgic tea houses, all while enjoying skyline glimpses of the Yangtze River. The trail ends near Nanshan’s viewpoints, where you can refuel with local mountain cuisine. A serene escape blending history, nature, and urban vistas. Our tour ends at the Huangjueya Ancient Street around 12:30 AM. You can easily take taxi or public bus back to your hotel or other places. Huangge Ancient Road is one of the most scenic and historic ancient roads in Chongqing, with its history dating back to the Tang and Song dynasties. This tranquil 2-3 km stone path winds through the lush Nan'an area, shaded by century-old banyan trees (Ficus virens, locally known as "Huangge"). Once a key section of the Ancient Tea Horse Road connecting Sichuan and Guizhou, this area now offers an easy 3-hour hike with moderate elevation gain, perfect for light adventurers. huangge The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:30 - 11:30am Mountain City Lane We will meet at the Exit 1 of Qixinggang Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to Shancheng Lane. Continue along the trail and learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. At the end of tour, you will taste a special Bing Fen (Ice Jelly) which is only available in Chongqing. shanchengxiang shanchengxiang Our tour ends at the Jiaochangkou subway station around 11:30 AM. You can easily take light railway back to your hotel or other places. Chongqing Shancheng Lane is known as Chongqing's "Architecture Museum". The museum preserves the old city wall built in the early Ming Dynasty, foreign consulates and churches when Chongqing was founded in the late Qing Dynasty, stilt houses, courtyard houses, air-raid shelters during the Anti-Japanese War, stone gate buildings on the seaside, as well as schools and houses built in different periods after the founding of New China. shanchengxiang 8:30 - 11:30am Mountain City Lane We will meet at the Exit 1 of Qixinggang Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to Shancheng Lane. Continue along the trail and learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. At the end of tour, you will taste a special Bing Fen (Ice Jelly) which is only available in Chongqing. shanchengxiang shanchengxiang Our tour ends at the Jiaochangkou subway station around 11:30 AM. You can easily take light railway back to your hotel or other places. Chongqing Shancheng Lane is known as Chongqing's "Architecture Museum". The museum preserves the old city wall built in the early Ming Dynasty, foreign consulates and churches when Chongqing was founded in the late Qing Dynasty, stilt houses, courtyard houses, air-raid shelters during the Anti-Japanese War, stone gate buildings on the seaside, as well as schools and houses built in different periods after the founding of New China. shanchengxiang We will meet at the Exit 1 of Qixinggang Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to Shancheng Lane. Continue along the trail and learn about Chongqing's history and the local people's way of life. There are many interesting handicraft shops and tea houses along the way. We'll stop at a tea house and drink some tea for a short break, you may have a chance to see the traditional Sichuan Opera - Face Changing. At the end of tour, you will taste a special Bing Fen (Ice Jelly) which is only available in Chongqing. Our tour ends at the Jiaochangkou subway station around 11:30 AM. You can easily take light railway back to your hotel or other places. Chongqing Shancheng Lane is known as Chongqing's "Architecture Museum". The museum preserves the old city wall built in the early Ming Dynasty, foreign consulates and churches when Chongqing was founded in the late Qing Dynasty, stilt houses, courtyard houses, air-raid shelters during the Anti-Japanese War, stone gate buildings on the seaside, as well as schools and houses built in different periods after the founding of New China. 8:30 - 12:30 am Huangge Ancient Road We will meet at Exit 3C of Shanghao Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to the trail. Along the way, pass Ming-Qing era stone carvings, hidden temples, and nostalgic tea houses, all while enjoying skyline glimpses of the Yangtze River. The trail ends near Nanshan’s viewpoints, where you can refuel with local mountain cuisine. A serene escape blending history, nature, and urban vistas. Our tour ends at the Huangjueya Ancient Street around 12:30 AM. You can easily take taxi or public bus back to your hotel or other places. Huangge Ancient Road is one of the most scenic and historic ancient roads in Chongqing, with its history dating back to the Tang and Song dynasties. This tranquil 2-3 km stone path winds through the lush Nan'an area, shaded by century-old banyan trees (Ficus virens, locally known as "Huangge"). Once a key section of the Ancient Tea Horse Road connecting Sichuan and Guizhou, this area now offers an easy 3-hour hike with moderate elevation gain, perfect for light adventurers. huangge 8:30 - 12:30 am Huangge Ancient Road We will meet at Exit 3C of Shanghao Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to the trail. Along the way, pass Ming-Qing era stone carvings, hidden temples, and nostalgic tea houses, all while enjoying skyline glimpses of the Yangtze River. The trail ends near Nanshan’s viewpoints, where you can refuel with local mountain cuisine. A serene escape blending history, nature, and urban vistas. Our tour ends at the Huangjueya Ancient Street around 12:30 AM. You can easily take taxi or public bus back to your hotel or other places. Huangge Ancient Road is one of the most scenic and historic ancient roads in Chongqing, with its history dating back to the Tang and Song dynasties. This tranquil 2-3 km stone path winds through the lush Nan'an area, shaded by century-old banyan trees (Ficus virens, locally known as "Huangge"). Once a key section of the Ancient Tea Horse Road connecting Sichuan and Guizhou, this area now offers an easy 3-hour hike with moderate elevation gain, perfect for light adventurers. huangge We will meet at Exit 3C of Shanghao Subway Station at 8:30 AM, and then head to the trail. Along the way, pass Ming-Qing era stone carvings, hidden temples, and nostalgic tea houses, all while enjoying skyline glimpses of the Yangtze River. The trail ends near Nanshan’s viewpoints, where you can refuel with local mountain cuisine. A serene escape blending history, nature, and urban vistas. Our tour ends at the Huangjueya Ancient Street around 12:30 AM. You can easily take taxi or public bus back to your hotel or other places. Huangge Ancient Road is one of the most scenic and historic ancient roads in Chongqing, with its history dating back to the Tang and Song dynasties. This tranquil 2-3 km stone path winds through the lush Nan'an area, shaded by century-old banyan trees (Ficus virens, locally known as "Huangge"). Once a key section of the Ancient Tea Horse Road connecting Sichuan and Guizhou, this area now offers an easy 3-hour hike with moderate elevation gain, perfect for light adventurers. Know Before You Book Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Shancheng Alley: Tea house with face changing show, Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). Huangge Ancient Road: Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Lunch. Gratuities (recommended). Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Shancheng Alley: Tea house with face changing show, Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). Huangge Ancient Road: Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Lunch. Gratuities (recommended). Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Shancheng Alley: Tea house with face changing show, Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). Huangge Ancient Road: Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Lunch. Gratuities (recommended). • Professional English-speaking local guide. • Shancheng Alley: Tea house with face changing show, Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). • Huangge Ancient Road: Taste local dessert Bing Fen (Ice Jelly). • Hotel pickup and drop-off. • Lunch. • Gratuities (recommended). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 63 p/p Transfer Type Mountain City Lane Huangge Ancient Road Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 63 p/p Transfer Type Mountain City Lane Huangge Ancient Road Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 63 p/p Transfer Type Mountain City Lane Huangge Ancient Road Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type Mountain City Lane Huangge Ancient Road Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20