ID: 3cdf5b69f9746f12
Title: Half-Day Great Wall at Mutianyu Hiking Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/beijing/half-day-mutianyu-great-wall-hiking-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ There is a famous saying by Chairman Mao: "He who does not reach the Great Wall is not a true man."(不到长城非好汉。) As an "Eighth Wonder of the Ancient World", the Great Wall of China is a must-see attraction. However, there are many different sections of the Great Wall in Beijing, so which section is best for you? For the first-time visitor to Beijing, who wants to see most highlights of the Great Wall in a time-saving manner, without too much exertion, the Great Wall at Mutianyu is probably the best choice. There is a famous saying by Chairman Mao: "He who does not reach the Great Wall is not a true man."(不到长城非好汉。) As an "Eighth Wonder of the Ancient World", the Great Wall of China is a must-see attraction. However, there are many different sections of the Great Wall in Beijing, so which section is best for you? For the first-time visitor to Beijing, who wants to see most highlights of the Great Wall in a time-saving manner, without too much exertion, the Great Wall at Mutianyu is probably the best choice. Tour Highlights Hike up the best fully-restored Great Wall section at Mutianyu. Enjoy a peaceful time and being amazed by the Great Wall at Mutianyu which is less crowded, has better architecture, and has more watchtowers than other sections. Take a cable car (or toboggan) up and down the mountain, avoid hiking up and walking back down the mountain on over 800 steps by taking a cable car or a toboggan, making it very easy to visit. With the greens of pines and cypresses covering ninety percent of the surrounding area, the scenery there is beautiful all year round. A unique Great Wall hiking experience escorted by a professional expert guide. • Hike up the best fully-restored Great Wall section at Mutianyu. • Enjoy a peaceful time and being amazed by the Great Wall at Mutianyu which is less crowded, has better architecture, and has more watchtowers than other sections. • Take a cable car (or toboggan) up and down the mountain, avoid hiking up and walking back down the mountain on over 800 steps by taking a cable car or a toboggan, making it very easy to visit. • With the greens of pines and cypresses covering ninety percent of the surrounding area, the scenery there is beautiful all year round. • A unique Great Wall hiking experience escorted by a professional expert guide. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: daily sanitization, air-conditioned, with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support The Design of the Day Trip • Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English • Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience • Vehicle: daily sanitization, air-conditioned, with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space • Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support Great Wall at Mutianyu Hiking Map Great Wall at Mutianyu Hiking Map Great Wall at Mutianyu Hiking Map Great Wall at Mutianyu Hiking Map Detailed Itinerary Close All 10:30 AM – 1:30 PM Hotel pick-up, drive to the Great Wall at Mutianyu Meet your guide at your hotel. He/She will be waiting in the hotel lobby, holding a placard with your name on it. Then drive to the Great Wall section at Mutianyu which will take about 1½ hours and we'll have a rest and have a simple set meal for lunch before going up to the wall. You also can choose to have a picnic on the wall if the weather is really good. Feel free to tell the tour guide and he/she will be glad to arrange that for you. Lunch fee is not included in the pricing. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and pick up time by email. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and have a simple lunch before leaving. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change, and that there are no shops on this part of the Wall. We are also available to provide the private airport transfer service for this trip, price from 25 USD p/p. Click here to book the additional transfer. We can drive our own vehicle to the foot of the Great Wall while others have to wait for the public transfer bus to the foot of the Great Wall. During peak seasons, people who transfer with public bus may spend 1 hour in waiting in a long queue. 1:30 PM – 3:30 PM Hike the Great Wall at Mutianyu Upon arrival, collect some cool drinking water at the China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk at the foot of the Great Wall. China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk You have two options for travelling up and down the Wall: round-way cable car (or toboggan). You can decide which option you prefer when you arrive. If you choose cable car, it will take seven minutes to reach the top of the Wall, instead of going up by foot might take you 45 minutes climbing steps. Cable car and toboggan fee is not included in the pricing. Cable car to the Great Wall Take a toboggan down the mountain Cable car ascends to and descends from the 14th watchtower. From there, walk east to the 23rd watchtower on the most beautiful part of the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall. And chairlift ascends to the 6th watchtower. It would be a high challenge hiking from the 6th to the 23rd watchtower. According to your physical condition, most of our customers who take the chairlift up and down, hike from tower 6 to tower 14 and turn back to tower 6. Take a toboggan down the mountain which is fun. A happy moment on the Great Wall Beautiful sunset on the Great Wall Customers on the Great Wall Good to Know: We avoid (the worst of the) crowds on the Great Wall and traffic jams by visiting in the afternoon. 3:30 PM – 5:30 PM Return to Beijing Arrive at the foot of the Great Wall and back to our vehicle. You will be transferred back to your hotel at approximately 6pm. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Good to Know: If you plan to leave Beijing after your day tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. Normally it will take 10 to 20 minutes for hotel staff to complete the procedure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle, and you will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour to make best use of your time. You will need 1 hour to be transferred from the city center to airport, and you will need to be at the airport 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. We provide private airport / train station to transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) Close All 10:30 AM – 1:30 PM Hotel pick-up, drive to the Great Wall at Mutianyu Meet your guide at your hotel. He/She will be waiting in the hotel lobby, holding a placard with your name on it. Then drive to the Great Wall section at Mutianyu which will take about 1½ hours and we'll have a rest and have a simple set meal for lunch before going up to the wall. You also can choose to have a picnic on the wall if the weather is really good. Feel free to tell the tour guide and he/she will be glad to arrange that for you. Lunch fee is not included in the pricing. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and pick up time by email. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and have a simple lunch before leaving. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change, and that there are no shops on this part of the Wall. We are also available to provide the private airport transfer service for this trip, price from 25 USD p/p. Click here to book the additional transfer. We can drive our own vehicle to the foot of the Great Wall while others have to wait for the public transfer bus to the foot of the Great Wall. During peak seasons, people who transfer with public bus may spend 1 hour in waiting in a long queue. 1:30 PM – 3:30 PM Hike the Great Wall at Mutianyu Upon arrival, collect some cool drinking water at the China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk at the foot of the Great Wall. China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk You have two options for travelling up and down the Wall: round-way cable car (or toboggan). You can decide which option you prefer when you arrive. If you choose cable car, it will take seven minutes to reach the top of the Wall, instead of going up by foot might take you 45 minutes climbing steps. Cable car and toboggan fee is not included in the pricing. Cable car to the Great Wall Take a toboggan down the mountain Cable car ascends to and descends from the 14th watchtower. From there, walk east to the 23rd watchtower on the most beautiful part of the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall. And chairlift ascends to the 6th watchtower. It would be a high challenge hiking from the 6th to the 23rd watchtower. According to your physical condition, most of our customers who take the chairlift up and down, hike from tower 6 to tower 14 and turn back to tower 6. Take a toboggan down the mountain which is fun. A happy moment on the Great Wall Beautiful sunset on the Great Wall Customers on the Great Wall Good to Know: We avoid (the worst of the) crowds on the Great Wall and traffic jams by visiting in the afternoon. 3:30 PM – 5:30 PM Return to Beijing Arrive at the foot of the Great Wall and back to our vehicle. You will be transferred back to your hotel at approximately 6pm. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Good to Know: If you plan to leave Beijing after your day tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. Normally it will take 10 to 20 minutes for hotel staff to complete the procedure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle, and you will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour to make best use of your time. You will need 1 hour to be transferred from the city center to airport, and you will need to be at the airport 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. We provide private airport / train station to transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) 10:30 AM – 1:30 PM Hotel pick-up, drive to the Great Wall at Mutianyu Meet your guide at your hotel. He/She will be waiting in the hotel lobby, holding a placard with your name on it. Then drive to the Great Wall section at Mutianyu which will take about 1½ hours and we'll have a rest and have a simple set meal for lunch before going up to the wall. You also can choose to have a picnic on the wall if the weather is really good. Feel free to tell the tour guide and he/she will be glad to arrange that for you. Lunch fee is not included in the pricing. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and pick up time by email. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and have a simple lunch before leaving. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change, and that there are no shops on this part of the Wall. We are also available to provide the private airport transfer service for this trip, price from 25 USD p/p. Click here to book the additional transfer. We can drive our own vehicle to the foot of the Great Wall while others have to wait for the public transfer bus to the foot of the Great Wall. During peak seasons, people who transfer with public bus may spend 1 hour in waiting in a long queue. 10:30 AM – 1:30 PM Hotel pick-up, drive to the Great Wall at Mutianyu Meet your guide at your hotel. He/She will be waiting in the hotel lobby, holding a placard with your name on it. Then drive to the Great Wall section at Mutianyu which will take about 1½ hours and we'll have a rest and have a simple set meal for lunch before going up to the wall. You also can choose to have a picnic on the wall if the weather is really good. Feel free to tell the tour guide and he/she will be glad to arrange that for you. Lunch fee is not included in the pricing. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby / Photo by: David Deng Good to Know: The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and pick up time by email. It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. Be prepared for a hiking day and have a simple lunch before leaving. Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change, and that there are no shops on this part of the Wall. We are also available to provide the private airport transfer service for this trip, price from 25 USD p/p. Click here to book the additional transfer. We can drive our own vehicle to the foot of the Great Wall while others have to wait for the public transfer bus to the foot of the Great Wall. During peak seasons, people who transfer with public bus may spend 1 hour in waiting in a long queue. Meet your guide at your hotel. He/She will be waiting in the hotel lobby, holding a placard with your name on it. Then drive to the Great Wall section at Mutianyu which will take about 1½ hours and we'll have a rest and have a simple set meal for lunch before going up to the wall. You also can choose to have a picnic on the wall if the weather is really good. Feel free to tell the tour guide and he/she will be glad to arrange that for you. Lunch fee is not included in the pricing. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby / Photo by: David Deng • The day before your tour date, we will send you details of the tour guide and pick up time by email. • It is necessary to wear comfortable hiking shoes for the hiking. • Be prepared for a hiking day and have a simple lunch before leaving. • Do not forget you are going to the mountains where the weather can rapidly change, and that there are no shops on this part of the Wall. • We are also available to provide the private airport transfer service for this trip, price from 25 USD p/p. Click here to book the additional transfer. • We can drive our own vehicle to the foot of the Great Wall while others have to wait for the public transfer bus to the foot of the Great Wall. During peak seasons, people who transfer with public bus may spend 1 hour in waiting in a long queue. 1:30 PM – 3:30 PM Hike the Great Wall at Mutianyu Upon arrival, collect some cool drinking water at the China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk at the foot of the Great Wall. China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk You have two options for travelling up and down the Wall: round-way cable car (or toboggan). You can decide which option you prefer when you arrive. If you choose cable car, it will take seven minutes to reach the top of the Wall, instead of going up by foot might take you 45 minutes climbing steps. Cable car and toboggan fee is not included in the pricing. Cable car to the Great Wall Take a toboggan down the mountain Cable car ascends to and descends from the 14th watchtower. From there, walk east to the 23rd watchtower on the most beautiful part of the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall. And chairlift ascends to the 6th watchtower. It would be a high challenge hiking from the 6th to the 23rd watchtower. According to your physical condition, most of our customers who take the chairlift up and down, hike from tower 6 to tower 14 and turn back to tower 6. Take a toboggan down the mountain which is fun. A happy moment on the Great Wall Beautiful sunset on the Great Wall Customers on the Great Wall Good to Know: We avoid (the worst of the) crowds on the Great Wall and traffic jams by visiting in the afternoon. 1:30 PM – 3:30 PM Hike the Great Wall at Mutianyu Upon arrival, collect some cool drinking water at the China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk at the foot of the Great Wall. China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk You have two options for travelling up and down the Wall: round-way cable car (or toboggan). You can decide which option you prefer when you arrive. If you choose cable car, it will take seven minutes to reach the top of the Wall, instead of going up by foot might take you 45 minutes climbing steps. Cable car and toboggan fee is not included in the pricing. Cable car to the Great Wall Take a toboggan down the mountain Cable car ascends to and descends from the 14th watchtower. From there, walk east to the 23rd watchtower on the most beautiful part of the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall. And chairlift ascends to the 6th watchtower. It would be a high challenge hiking from the 6th to the 23rd watchtower. According to your physical condition, most of our customers who take the chairlift up and down, hike from tower 6 to tower 14 and turn back to tower 6. Take a toboggan down the mountain which is fun. A happy moment on the Great Wall Beautiful sunset on the Great Wall Customers on the Great Wall Good to Know: We avoid (the worst of the) crowds on the Great Wall and traffic jams by visiting in the afternoon. Upon arrival, collect some cool drinking water at the China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk at the foot of the Great Wall. China Highlights Refreshment Kiosk You have two options for travelling up and down the Wall: round-way cable car (or toboggan). You can decide which option you prefer when you arrive. If you choose cable car, it will take seven minutes to reach the top of the Wall, instead of going up by foot might take you 45 minutes climbing steps. Cable car and toboggan fee is not included in the pricing. Cable car to the Great Wall Take a toboggan down the mountain Cable car ascends to and descends from the 14th watchtower. From there, walk east to the 23rd watchtower on the most beautiful part of the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall. And chairlift ascends to the 6th watchtower. It would be a high challenge hiking from the 6th to the 23rd watchtower. According to your physical condition, most of our customers who take the chairlift up and down, hike from tower 6 to tower 14 and turn back to tower 6. Take a toboggan down the mountain which is fun. A happy moment on the Great Wall Beautiful sunset on the Great Wall Customers on the Great Wall • We avoid (the worst of the) crowds on the Great Wall and traffic jams by visiting in the afternoon. 3:30 PM – 5:30 PM Return to Beijing Arrive at the foot of the Great Wall and back to our vehicle. You will be transferred back to your hotel at approximately 6pm. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Good to Know: If you plan to leave Beijing after your day tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. Normally it will take 10 to 20 minutes for hotel staff to complete the procedure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle, and you will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour to make best use of your time. You will need 1 hour to be transferred from the city center to airport, and you will need to be at the airport 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. We provide private airport / train station to transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) 3:30 PM – 5:30 PM Return to Beijing Arrive at the foot of the Great Wall and back to our vehicle. You will be transferred back to your hotel at approximately 6pm. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Good to Know: If you plan to leave Beijing after your day tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. Normally it will take 10 to 20 minutes for hotel staff to complete the procedure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle, and you will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour to make best use of your time. You will need 1 hour to be transferred from the city center to airport, and you will need to be at the airport 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. We provide private airport / train station to transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) Arrive at the foot of the Great Wall and back to our vehicle. You will be transferred back to your hotel at approximately 6pm. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ • If you plan to leave Beijing after your day tour, please check out from your hotel before departure. Normally it will take 10 to 20 minutes for hotel staff to complete the procedure. You may leave your luggage in our vehicle, and you will be transferred to the airport or train station straight after the tour to make best use of your time. You will need 1 hour to be transferred from the city center to airport, and you will need to be at the airport 1.5 hours before a domestic flight, or 2.5 hours before you're an international flight. Tell us about your departure time when booking, and remind our guide, and we will make arrangements accordingly. We provide private airport / train station to transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) Know Before You Book Price Includes: Admission to the Great Wall at Mutianyu. English-speaking expert local guide. Transportation between your Beijing hotel and the Great Wall. Bottled water. Shuttle bus transfer service from the Gate of the Great Wall at Mutianyu to the foot of the Great Wall. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) Important Notes: Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 3. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. Not recommended for seniors (age 80+) or family travels with a baby. Private tour service is highly recommended for a better experience. Contact Us. Price Includes: Admission to the Great Wall at Mutianyu. English-speaking expert local guide. Transportation between your Beijing hotel and the Great Wall. Bottled water. Shuttle bus transfer service from the Gate of the Great Wall at Mutianyu to the foot of the Great Wall. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) Important Notes: Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 3. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. Not recommended for seniors (age 80+) or family travels with a baby. Private tour service is highly recommended for a better experience. Contact Us. Price Includes: Admission to the Great Wall at Mutianyu. English-speaking expert local guide. Transportation between your Beijing hotel and the Great Wall. Bottled water. Shuttle bus transfer service from the Gate of the Great Wall at Mutianyu to the foot of the Great Wall. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) • Admission to the Great Wall at Mutianyu. • English-speaking expert local guide. • Transportation between your Beijing hotel and the Great Wall. • Bottled water. • Shuttle bus transfer service from the Gate of the Great Wall at Mutianyu to the foot of the Great Wall. • Personal expenses. • Round-way cable car at Mutianyu (RMB100/US$15 per person for single-way, RMB140/US$22 per person for round-way). • Lunch fee (RMB60 per capita, depending on appetite). • Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually RMB50-100 per person). • Airport transfer (price from 25 USD p/p) Important Notes: Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 3. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. Not recommended for seniors (age 80+) or family travels with a baby. Private tour service is highly recommended for a better experience. Contact Us. • Minimum number of participants required for the tour to run is 3. Tour may be canceled in case of minimum number of participants not met. You will get a full refund. • Not recommended for seniors (age 80+) or family travels with a baby. Private tour service is highly recommended for a better experience. Contact Us. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, we provide the following ways for you to meet the tour guide: • Go to one of meeting hotels below. Transportation is at your own expense. Meeting time will be confirmed and emailed you one day earlier. The Regent Beijing, address: No.99, Jinbao Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing. Closed to Exit C of Dengshikou Subway Station (Line No.5). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. Gehua New Century Hotel Beijing, address: No.19, Gulou Outer Street, North 3th Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Closed to Exit E of Anyuanqiao Subway Station (Line No.8). Taxi from aiport: 27km far, cost approx. US$20 one way. • Book additional transfer service with us. Cost will be advised by your travel advisor according to your hotel location. • If you are not sure whether your hotel is within our pickup area, please kindly check with your hotel. Or add WeChat ID: trippest666 for more assistance. • In order to save your valuable time, according to current traffic condition, the tour guide might arrange a private DiDi Taxi (Uber) for you to return your hotel after tour. Your Didi car can be monitored on DiDi APP, and the tour guide will also call your hotel to check if you arrive safe. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different We are experienced and professional! We have been touring the Great Wall hiking trails for 8 years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. You don't need to prepare trekking poles, water, hip bag, GPS, first aid kit, or walkie-talkie, because we will provide them FREE OF CHARGE. We are experienced and professional No Shopping! No Hidden Costs! Great Value for Money! We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. Excellent services We have our own office in Beijing Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office What Makes Us Different We are experienced and professional! We have been touring the Great Wall hiking trails for 8 years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. You don't need to prepare trekking poles, water, hip bag, GPS, first aid kit, or walkie-talkie, because we will provide them FREE OF CHARGE. We are experienced and professional We are experienced and professional! We have been touring the Great Wall hiking trails for 8 years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. You don't need to prepare trekking poles, water, hip bag, GPS, first aid kit, or walkie-talkie, because we will provide them FREE OF CHARGE. We are experienced and professional • We have been touring the Great Wall hiking trails for 8 years, and all the relevant services we provide are reliable and optimized. • You don't need to prepare trekking poles, water, hip bag, GPS, first aid kit, or walkie-talkie, because we will provide them FREE OF CHARGE. We are experienced and professional No Shopping! No Hidden Costs! Great Value for Money! We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. Excellent services No Shopping! No Hidden Costs! Great Value for Money! We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. Excellent services • We promise that there's absolutely no shopping, no factories, no time-wasting itineraries while most other travel agents do to make the tour price seems to be lower. We are the first China travel agency to offer NO SHOPPING on all our tour itineraries. • We might not be the cheapest one but we make all our efforts to make sure the great experience for our customers to create more value for our customers. We have our own office in Beijing Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office We have our own office in Beijing Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office Unlike some other online travel agents who sell tour products made by local travel agents, we built our own branch company in Beijing in 2010, and since then we started to make our own unique products. We aim to deliver a high-value tour to every one of our customers. We have more than 50 local staff in Beijing to solve your problems on the spot. • Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) • Beijing address: Room 204, Building 8, Beijingxiangsu, Wuliqiao Erjie, Chaoyang District Trippest Beijing Office For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 109 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 109 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 109 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20