ID: 438cbdb5d1555ad
Title: Half-Day Huangshan Hongcun Acient Village Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/huangshan/half-day-huangshan-hong-village-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Hongcun Acient Village, it has 28 hectares in size in the northeast of Yixian County. It has landed a place in the World Heritage List for its long history, country scenery, and well preserved buildings dating hundreds of years. As the film setting for Ang Lee's movie "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon", Hong Village is a beautiful ancient village frequented by painters capturing the blend of pools, willows, and ancient architecture on canvass. Famous attractions like Chengzhi Hall, Southern Lake Academy, Moon Pond, etc. Going to this amazing small village with our half-day tour to see old Ming and Qing courtyards, beautiful preserved countryside, feel the lifestyle of the villagers and shop for souvenirs and country products. Tour Highlights Half-day tour to see authentic Hui style architactures and picturesque scenery in a small ancient village. Discover the local cultural customs and lifestyles through the communication with local villagers. Taste some famous dishes and snacks in a local family-style restaurant and buy some special souvenirs. Well-designed route to visit the attractions and feel quiet and peaceful countryside. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:30 - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add:No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District,Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can take a bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver "您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 – 9:30Take Coach To Hong Village After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to Hong Village by coach. It will take about 1.5 hour to get there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Hong Village and Huangshan city on the way, like attractions, food, local life style, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and Hong Village, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting Hong Villageis in a private small group. 9:30 –11:00Visit Hongcun Village Scenic Area Arrive at Hongcun Village Scenic Area, we firstly visit Southern Lake Area. Water scenery is one of the highlights of Hong Village. Moon Pond, South Lake and the winding streams lend more color to the village. South Lake is built after the Moon Pond as to meet villagers' growing daily water needs. On sunny days, the white residence, willows and poplars the shadows mirrored on the water it looks particularly superb. Moon Pond Lotus pond South Pake Hongcun is an outstanding representative of Huizhou traditional local culture, building techniques and landscape design. It has historical, artistic, and scientific value. The village structures blend in with the natural setting that exhibit the wisdom of hundreds of years of village construction. Ma Tau Wall is the most significant feature of Huizhou architecture A café in village Residences and sights to be seen in a tour include Chengzhi Hall, Lexu Hall that are known for its engraved art. Nanhu Academy is a good architectural representative of the family academies of Huizhou. By visiting it, you can learn something about the social life of that time. Lexu Hall Zhidao Hall Southern Lake Academy Get into Hong Village's local lifestyle. Hongcun village currently has a population about 1,400. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. It's chance to learn deeply more about Hui culture from their lives in this village which is over 900 years. Along the streets in Hongcun, there are many shops with Curios and knick-knacks including brushes, inkstone, local teas, etc. It is a paradise for tourists to buy souvenirs rich in Chinese culture with comparatively lower prices. Contact with a local family A corner of village Stir drying the tea leaves 11:00 – 12:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties and famous dishes for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) The most famous dishes in Hongcun are Hairy Tofu, Stinky Mandarin fish, Saute Chinese Bacon, smells awful but tastes great! Also the local pancake packed with all kinds of fillings, you can buy some as gifts for family and friends at home. Chinese ham and bacon Huangshan pancake 12:00–13:30Transfer Back to Downtown Your trip comes to an end after lunch. You will be transfered back to Huangshan city, it will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights/tranis departing after 3:00 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport/train station transfer for your onward flight/train. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Customers in Hong Village Price Include: Admission to the listed attractions. Shared-coach transportation between Hongcun village and Huangshan city. English-speaking local guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop off. Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Hongcun Acient Village, it has 28 hectares in size in the northeast of Yixian County. It has landed a place in the World Heritage List for its long history, country scenery, and well preserved buildings dating hundreds of years. As the film setting for Ang Lee's movie "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon", Hong Village is a beautiful ancient village frequented by painters capturing the blend of pools, willows, and ancient architecture on canvass. Famous attractions like Chengzhi Hall, Southern Lake Academy, Moon Pond, etc. Going to this amazing small village with our half-day tour to see old Ming and Qing courtyards, beautiful preserved countryside, feel the lifestyle of the villagers and shop for souvenirs and country products. Hongcun Acient Village, it has 28 hectares in size in the northeast of Yixian County. It has landed a place in the World Heritage List for its long history, country scenery, and well preserved buildings dating hundreds of years. As the film setting for Ang Lee's movie "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon", Hong Village is a beautiful ancient village frequented by painters capturing the blend of pools, willows, and ancient architecture on canvass. Famous attractions like Chengzhi Hall, Southern Lake Academy, Moon Pond, etc. Going to this amazing small village with our half-day tour to see old Ming and Qing courtyards, beautiful preserved countryside, feel the lifestyle of the villagers and shop for souvenirs and country products. Tour Highlights Half-day tour to see authentic Hui style architactures and picturesque scenery in a small ancient village. Discover the local cultural customs and lifestyles through the communication with local villagers. Taste some famous dishes and snacks in a local family-style restaurant and buy some special souvenirs. Well-designed route to visit the attractions and feel quiet and peaceful countryside. • Half-day tour to see authentic Hui style architactures and picturesque scenery in a small ancient village. • Discover the local cultural customs and lifestyles through the communication with local villagers. • Taste some famous dishes and snacks in a local family-style restaurant and buy some special souvenirs. • Well-designed route to visit the attractions and feel quiet and peaceful countryside. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:30 - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add:No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District,Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can take a bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver "您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 – 9:30Take Coach To Hong Village After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to Hong Village by coach. It will take about 1.5 hour to get there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Hong Village and Huangshan city on the way, like attractions, food, local life style, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and Hong Village, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting Hong Villageis in a private small group. 9:30 –11:00Visit Hongcun Village Scenic Area Arrive at Hongcun Village Scenic Area, we firstly visit Southern Lake Area. Water scenery is one of the highlights of Hong Village. Moon Pond, South Lake and the winding streams lend more color to the village. South Lake is built after the Moon Pond as to meet villagers' growing daily water needs. On sunny days, the white residence, willows and poplars the shadows mirrored on the water it looks particularly superb. Moon Pond Lotus pond South Pake Hongcun is an outstanding representative of Huizhou traditional local culture, building techniques and landscape design. It has historical, artistic, and scientific value. The village structures blend in with the natural setting that exhibit the wisdom of hundreds of years of village construction. Ma Tau Wall is the most significant feature of Huizhou architecture A café in village Residences and sights to be seen in a tour include Chengzhi Hall, Lexu Hall that are known for its engraved art. Nanhu Academy is a good architectural representative of the family academies of Huizhou. By visiting it, you can learn something about the social life of that time. Lexu Hall Zhidao Hall Southern Lake Academy Get into Hong Village's local lifestyle. Hongcun village currently has a population about 1,400. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. It's chance to learn deeply more about Hui culture from their lives in this village which is over 900 years. Along the streets in Hongcun, there are many shops with Curios and knick-knacks including brushes, inkstone, local teas, etc. It is a paradise for tourists to buy souvenirs rich in Chinese culture with comparatively lower prices. Contact with a local family A corner of village Stir drying the tea leaves 11:00 – 12:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties and famous dishes for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) The most famous dishes in Hongcun are Hairy Tofu, Stinky Mandarin fish, Saute Chinese Bacon, smells awful but tastes great! Also the local pancake packed with all kinds of fillings, you can buy some as gifts for family and friends at home. Chinese ham and bacon Huangshan pancake 12:00–13:30Transfer Back to Downtown Your trip comes to an end after lunch. You will be transfered back to Huangshan city, it will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights/tranis departing after 3:00 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport/train station transfer for your onward flight/train. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Customers in Hong Village Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:30 - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add:No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District,Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can take a bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver "您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 – 9:30Take Coach To Hong Village After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to Hong Village by coach. It will take about 1.5 hour to get there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Hong Village and Huangshan city on the way, like attractions, food, local life style, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and Hong Village, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting Hong Villageis in a private small group. 9:30 –11:00Visit Hongcun Village Scenic Area Arrive at Hongcun Village Scenic Area, we firstly visit Southern Lake Area. Water scenery is one of the highlights of Hong Village. Moon Pond, South Lake and the winding streams lend more color to the village. South Lake is built after the Moon Pond as to meet villagers' growing daily water needs. On sunny days, the white residence, willows and poplars the shadows mirrored on the water it looks particularly superb. Moon Pond Lotus pond South Pake Hongcun is an outstanding representative of Huizhou traditional local culture, building techniques and landscape design. It has historical, artistic, and scientific value. The village structures blend in with the natural setting that exhibit the wisdom of hundreds of years of village construction. Ma Tau Wall is the most significant feature of Huizhou architecture A café in village Residences and sights to be seen in a tour include Chengzhi Hall, Lexu Hall that are known for its engraved art. Nanhu Academy is a good architectural representative of the family academies of Huizhou. By visiting it, you can learn something about the social life of that time. Lexu Hall Zhidao Hall Southern Lake Academy Get into Hong Village's local lifestyle. Hongcun village currently has a population about 1,400. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. It's chance to learn deeply more about Hui culture from their lives in this village which is over 900 years. Along the streets in Hongcun, there are many shops with Curios and knick-knacks including brushes, inkstone, local teas, etc. It is a paradise for tourists to buy souvenirs rich in Chinese culture with comparatively lower prices. Contact with a local family A corner of village Stir drying the tea leaves 11:00 – 12:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties and famous dishes for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) The most famous dishes in Hongcun are Hairy Tofu, Stinky Mandarin fish, Saute Chinese Bacon, smells awful but tastes great! Also the local pancake packed with all kinds of fillings, you can buy some as gifts for family and friends at home. Chinese ham and bacon Huangshan pancake 12:00–13:30Transfer Back to Downtown Your trip comes to an end after lunch. You will be transfered back to Huangshan city, it will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights/tranis departing after 3:00 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport/train station transfer for your onward flight/train. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Customers in Hong Village The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will confirm the meeting time and location with you for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:30 - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add:No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District,Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can take a bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver "您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 7:30 - 8:00AMMeet The Guide You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add:No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District,Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? You can take a bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver "您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. You'll be picked up at the lobby of Huangshan International Hotel, (Add:No.31 Huashan Road Tunxi District,Huangshan City) at the appointed time which the guide confirmed with you one day before the tour day, please arrange yourself arriving beforehand. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. The gate of Huangshan International Hotel • How to get to the meeting point? You can take a bus and get off at the ''Hengjiangqiao stop'', then walk 100 meters to the hotel. Or you can take a taxi there directly and show the driver "您好，请送我到黄山国际大酒店。" • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 – 9:30Take Coach To Hong Village After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to Hong Village by coach. It will take about 1.5 hour to get there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Hong Village and Huangshan city on the way, like attractions, food, local life style, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and Hong Village, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting Hong Villageis in a private small group. 8:00 – 9:30Take Coach To Hong Village After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to Hong Village by coach. It will take about 1.5 hour to get there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Hong Village and Huangshan city on the way, like attractions, food, local life style, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach Good to Know: It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and Hong Village, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting Hong Villageis in a private small group. After all the group members are assembled, we will set out to Hong Village by coach. It will take about 1.5 hour to get there. Our private guide will introduce you to some basic information of Hong Village and Huangshan city on the way, like attractions, food, local life style, etc. The exterior of the coach The interior of the coach • It is possible that you might share one coach with Chinese guests for the round-trip journey between downtown and Hong Village, but we still have a dedicated English-speaking guide onboard for your service and he/she will accompany with you during the whole itinerary. Therefore, you will do a shared coach tour on the transportation, but visiting Hong Villageis in a private small group. 9:30 –11:00Visit Hongcun Village Scenic Area Arrive at Hongcun Village Scenic Area, we firstly visit Southern Lake Area. Water scenery is one of the highlights of Hong Village. Moon Pond, South Lake and the winding streams lend more color to the village. South Lake is built after the Moon Pond as to meet villagers' growing daily water needs. On sunny days, the white residence, willows and poplars the shadows mirrored on the water it looks particularly superb. Moon Pond Lotus pond South Pake Hongcun is an outstanding representative of Huizhou traditional local culture, building techniques and landscape design. It has historical, artistic, and scientific value. The village structures blend in with the natural setting that exhibit the wisdom of hundreds of years of village construction. Ma Tau Wall is the most significant feature of Huizhou architecture A café in village Residences and sights to be seen in a tour include Chengzhi Hall, Lexu Hall that are known for its engraved art. Nanhu Academy is a good architectural representative of the family academies of Huizhou. By visiting it, you can learn something about the social life of that time. Lexu Hall Zhidao Hall Southern Lake Academy Get into Hong Village's local lifestyle. Hongcun village currently has a population about 1,400. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. It's chance to learn deeply more about Hui culture from their lives in this village which is over 900 years. Along the streets in Hongcun, there are many shops with Curios and knick-knacks including brushes, inkstone, local teas, etc. It is a paradise for tourists to buy souvenirs rich in Chinese culture with comparatively lower prices. Contact with a local family A corner of village Stir drying the tea leaves 9:30 –11:00Visit Hongcun Village Scenic Area Arrive at Hongcun Village Scenic Area, we firstly visit Southern Lake Area. Water scenery is one of the highlights of Hong Village. Moon Pond, South Lake and the winding streams lend more color to the village. South Lake is built after the Moon Pond as to meet villagers' growing daily water needs. On sunny days, the white residence, willows and poplars the shadows mirrored on the water it looks particularly superb. Moon Pond Lotus pond South Pake Hongcun is an outstanding representative of Huizhou traditional local culture, building techniques and landscape design. It has historical, artistic, and scientific value. The village structures blend in with the natural setting that exhibit the wisdom of hundreds of years of village construction. Ma Tau Wall is the most significant feature of Huizhou architecture A café in village Residences and sights to be seen in a tour include Chengzhi Hall, Lexu Hall that are known for its engraved art. Nanhu Academy is a good architectural representative of the family academies of Huizhou. By visiting it, you can learn something about the social life of that time. Lexu Hall Zhidao Hall Southern Lake Academy Get into Hong Village's local lifestyle. Hongcun village currently has a population about 1,400. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. It's chance to learn deeply more about Hui culture from their lives in this village which is over 900 years. Along the streets in Hongcun, there are many shops with Curios and knick-knacks including brushes, inkstone, local teas, etc. It is a paradise for tourists to buy souvenirs rich in Chinese culture with comparatively lower prices. Contact with a local family A corner of village Stir drying the tea leaves Arrive at Hongcun Village Scenic Area, we firstly visit Southern Lake Area. Water scenery is one of the highlights of Hong Village. Moon Pond, South Lake and the winding streams lend more color to the village. South Lake is built after the Moon Pond as to meet villagers' growing daily water needs. On sunny days, the white residence, willows and poplars the shadows mirrored on the water it looks particularly superb. Hongcun is an outstanding representative of Huizhou traditional local culture, building techniques and landscape design. It has historical, artistic, and scientific value. The village structures blend in with the natural setting that exhibit the wisdom of hundreds of years of village construction. Ma Tau Wall is the most significant feature of Huizhou architecture Residences and sights to be seen in a tour include Chengzhi Hall, Lexu Hall that are known for its engraved art. Nanhu Academy is a good architectural representative of the family academies of Huizhou. By visiting it, you can learn something about the social life of that time. Southern Lake Academy Get into Hong Village's local lifestyle. Hongcun village currently has a population about 1,400. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. It's chance to learn deeply more about Hui culture from their lives in this village which is over 900 years. Along the streets in Hongcun, there are many shops with Curios and knick-knacks including brushes, inkstone, local teas, etc. It is a paradise for tourists to buy souvenirs rich in Chinese culture with comparatively lower prices. Contact with a local family Stir drying the tea leaves 11:00 – 12:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties and famous dishes for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) The most famous dishes in Hongcun are Hairy Tofu, Stinky Mandarin fish, Saute Chinese Bacon, smells awful but tastes great! Also the local pancake packed with all kinds of fillings, you can buy some as gifts for family and friends at home. Chinese ham and bacon Huangshan pancake 11:00 – 12:00Lunch Time There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties and famous dishes for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) The most famous dishes in Hongcun are Hairy Tofu, Stinky Mandarin fish, Saute Chinese Bacon, smells awful but tastes great! Also the local pancake packed with all kinds of fillings, you can buy some as gifts for family and friends at home. Chinese ham and bacon Huangshan pancake There are some local restaurants here and you can taste some Huangshan specialties and famous dishes for lunch. (Lunch fee is not included.) The most famous dishes in Hongcun are Hairy Tofu, Stinky Mandarin fish, Saute Chinese Bacon, smells awful but tastes great! Also the local pancake packed with all kinds of fillings, you can buy some as gifts for family and friends at home. Chinese ham and bacon 12:00–13:30Transfer Back to Downtown Your trip comes to an end after lunch. You will be transfered back to Huangshan city, it will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights/tranis departing after 3:00 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport/train station transfer for your onward flight/train. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Customers in Hong Village 12:00–13:30Transfer Back to Downtown Your trip comes to an end after lunch. You will be transfered back to Huangshan city, it will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights/tranis departing after 3:00 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport/train station transfer for your onward flight/train. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Customers in Hong Village Your trip comes to an end after lunch. You will be transfered back to Huangshan city, it will normally take about 1-1.5 hour. If you need to catch a flight or a train after the tour we will be more than happy to help you arrange it. We suggest you take flights/tranis departing after 3:00 pm. Please ask your trip advisor to book the airport/train station transfer for your onward flight/train. Thank you for choosing Trippest. We trust this trip will bring you joy and satisfaction. It would be a great encouragement to us, and we would greatly appreciate it, if you would rate us on TripAdvisor or share your experience of our service on your Facebook or blog. Customers in Hong Village Price Include: Admission to the listed attractions. Shared-coach transportation between Hongcun village and Huangshan city. English-speaking local guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop off. Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to the listed attractions. Shared-coach transportation between Hongcun village and Huangshan city. English-speaking local guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop off. Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to the listed attractions. Shared-coach transportation between Hongcun village and Huangshan city. English-speaking local guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop off. Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Admission to the listed attractions. • Shared-coach transportation between Hongcun village and Huangshan city. • English-speaking local guide service. • Bottled water. • Hotel pickup and drop off. • Lunch. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 102 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 102 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 102 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20