ID: 1ecdae7a20f1bb47
Title: How to Plan a Panda Tour 2026: A Comprehensive Panda Travel Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/giant-panda/
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-07-04T00:00:00
================================================================================

There are many places to see lovely giant pandas in China. But where is the best place to go for a special panda trip? What is the best time to go? What other panda-themed activities can I enjoy? We will give you some insiders' recommendations and suggestions based on our field visit, and it may help you to plan your panda tour. • Best Panda Bases in Chengdu • Panda Volunteer Program • Panda Tour Itinerary • Best Time to See Pandas • How to Get to Panda Base • Stay Near Panda Base or Not Where Are the Best Places to See Giant Pandas? The five panda bases in and around Chengdu are the best places to see giant pandas. Which one is best for you depends on how much time you have and what kind of experience you want to have. We highly recommend Chengdu Panda Base, Dujiangyan Panda Base, or Panda Valley. They're all relatively close to the city and easy to combine with nearby attractions, so you won't waste time on long drives and can better plan your itinerary. Panda Base From Chengdu Highlights Crowds Chengdu Panda Base 0.5h The largest base with the most pandas, especially baby pandas. It's also the closest to the city and convenient to get. crowded Dujiangyan Panda Base 1.5h Pandas appear just a few steps after you enter, with great close-up views. It's also the most convenient to join a volunteer program. less-crowded Dujiangyan Panda Valley 1.5h Closest viewing distance for both giant pandas and red pandas. Also, the most scenic, compact and easy to walk. less-crowded Wolong Panda Base 2h Quiet mountain setting with fewer visitors. You can see many mother pandas with their cubs, as well as more overseas-returned pandas. quiet Bifengxia Panda Base 2.5h Less crowded, with a large wildlife park next door for combined visits. quiet Chengdu Panda Base is great for families with kids, student groups, those short on time, or anyone wanting to see the most pandas in one visit, and the star panda Hua Hua. Dujiangyan Panda Base suits those who prefer fewer crowds, less walking, want to join a panda volunteer program, or spot the Singapore returnees, Panda Lele. It's also good for group tours. Panda Valley is ideal for families with kids or elderly visitors, and those who want a close-up view of pandas and photos. Wolong Panda Base is best for those who want to see giant pandas and baby pandas in a quiet, scenic setting, as well as more overseas returnees like Fu Bao, Xiao Qi Ji, and Taishan. Bifengxia Panda Base is a good choice if you want to avoid crowds and also see other animals in a larger wildlife park. If you're not visiting Chengdu but still want to see pandas, you can still catch them in other cities too, like Beijing, Chongqing, and Guangzhou. See our Top 6 Places to See Pandas in China. My favorite panda base I've visited three panda bases in late March, including Dujiangyan Panda Base, Panda Valley, and Wolong, and Panda Valley is my personal favorite. We didn't encounter any students or tour groups during our visit, maybe because we went in the afternoon, so the base felt quieter compared to the other two panda bases. The pandas lived in a beautiful, garden-like environment with lush greenery and tasteful landscaping. They also have indoor glass enclosures to cool off during hot weather, which is friendly to both the pandas and visitors. A wonderful surprise was that we met the red pandas and white peacocks roaming freely near the paths. They were active and not afraid of visitors. The staff were also responsible and quick to handle any unruly visitors, ensuring us a pleasant experience. My favorite panda base I've visited three panda bases in late March, including Dujiangyan Panda Base, Panda Valley, and Wolong, and Panda Valley is my personal favorite. We didn't encounter any students or tour groups during our visit, maybe because we went in the afternoon, so the base felt quieter compared to the other two panda bases. The pandas lived in a beautiful, garden-like environment with lush greenery and tasteful landscaping. They also have indoor glass enclosures to cool off during hot weather, which is friendly to both the pandas and visitors. A wonderful surprise was that we met the red pandas and white peacocks roaming freely near the paths. They were active and not afraid of visitors. The staff were also responsible and quick to handle any unruly visitors, ensuring us a pleasant experience. Recommended Tours with Panda • 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour • 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan and Mount. Emei Tour • 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Panda Volunteer Program: Is It Worth? It is a meaningful program and can let you experience somethings that regular visitors cannot do. You could learn more about pandas' habits, knowledge by chatting with the panda breeders, see how they train pandas daily, clean panda enclosures, and prepare food. If you are a big fan of pandas or you want to do some meaningful or educational activities with kids, it is a good option. But if you are expecting this event with the intention of being able to hold the pandas and feed them, then you might be disappointed because hugging or feeding pandas is not allowed. Clean the panda enclosure What Are the Detailed Activities and Time Arrangement? It typically starts from 7am and ends at 2:30pm. Here is an itinerary for Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program: • 7:00 am: Our guide and driver pick you up from your hotel in Chengdu. • 8:00 am-11:30 am: Arrive at Dujiangyan Panda Base and begin your tour. You will learn more about the pandas and help take care of them. The activities may include breaking bamboo and washing some bamboo shoots, cleaning the glass of their enclosures, and touring around the panda base. • 11:30 am-1:30pm: Lunch at the canteen of Dujiangyan Panda Base. And then watch a panda movie that lasts for about 40 minutes. • 1:30 pm-2:00 pm: Continue the program in the afternoon. Make panda cakes and cut bamboo leaves. • 2:00 pm-2:30 pm: The panda keeper program finishes. You will receive a panda keeper certificate. Transfer back to your hotel in Chengdu. • You will return to Chengdu City at 5pm Panda Keeper Program in Dujiangyan 1. Which panda base should I choose for the volunteer program? Currently, there are three panda bases available to this: Dujiangyan Panda Base, Wolong Panda Base, and Bifengxia Panda Base. The activities are quite similar across all three, with no big differences. However, considering the travel time, convenience, crowd levels, and overall facilities, Dujiangyan Panda Base is the most recommended option. It's the easiest to reach from Chengdu and offers a well-organized experience. 2. Is it suitable for foreigners due to the language barrier? Don't worry. Our tour guide will accompany you throughout the journey. Language is not a problem. Moreover, during visiting the base, the guide can also share some interesting stories about pandas with you, and help you arrange the visiting route smartly to avoid the crowds. 3. How Much Does the Volunteer Program Cost? The one-day private panda volunteer experience is generally more expensive than regular sightseeing activities, with prices varying slightly by base, usually around 300 USD per person. The program in Dujiangyan Panda Base costs around 289 USD per person. It's a more budget-friendly option. The program in Wolong takes about 399 USD per person. It's pricier due to its remote location. And you would have more experience after the volunteer program. Visit a local farmer's home, where you can learn about bamboo growth and even try planting it yourself. 4. Age restriction for the panda volunteer program The age restriction is from 10-65 years old for security reasons. Pandas can be dangerous sometimes, despite their lovely appearances. Popular Tours with Panda Volunteer Program: 1-day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteers Itinerary 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour Popular Tours with Panda Volunteer Program: • 1-day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteers Itinerary • 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour What Other Activities Can I Join beyond the Panda Bases? If you still can't get enough of pandas after your visit to the base, these fun and laid-back panda-themed spots will keep you happily immersed in the world of lovely pandas. Margaux Manor is best to take photos of the unique panda waterfall wall. It's also a popular hot pot restaurant. You can enjoy a hot pot meal by the lake while admiring the scenic views. If you're a photo enthusiast, don't miss Panda Bookstore. The panda afternoon tea and the bookstore itself are best for photos. What's more, you can walk 10 minutes to Chunxi Road. There's an iconic landmark of Chengdu, the IFS climbing panda. Panda-Themed Afternoon Tea Are there any activities best for kids? Of course, Chinese ink painting class is beginner-friendly. The studio is often filled with local children, giving your kids a chance to interact with peers and experience a bit of local culture, too. Panda Chinese Painting Experience How to Arrange A Panda Itinerary? Typically, it takes half a day to visit a panda base. To make the most of your trip, we highly recommend combining the panda experience with other Chengdu highlights, whether it's for a full day, a weekend, or even a longer stay. Here's a suggested itinerary, covering pandas and other must-see attractions in Chengdu, perfect for first-time visitors to the city. • Day 1: Chengdu Arrival • Day 2: Chengdu Highlights (Wenshu Monastery, Dongjiao Memory, People's Park) • Day 3: Dujiangyan (Panda Valley for both pandas and red pandas, Irrigation System) • Day 4: Leshan Giant Buddha • Day 5: Mount Emei • Day 6: Chengdu departure 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Emei Tour Experience the Classic and Vibrant Chengdu 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Emei Tour Experience the Classic and Vibrant Chengdu 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Emei Tour Experience the Classic and Vibrant Chengdu When is the Best Time to See Pandas? Spring and autumn offer the most comfortable weather for both visitors and pandas. It's cool, pleasant, and great for outdoor viewing. Winter, on the other hand, may feel chilly for visitors, and places like Wolong might even see snowfall. But pandas love the cold, and you usually see they staying outdoors. Summer can get quite hot, and pandas tend to be less active in the heat. You're more likely to find them staying indoors during this season. Just note that only Chengdu Panda Base and Panda Valley have both outdoor and indoor visiting areas. These two bases will move pandas indoors once the temperature is over 26℃, so you'll likely see more of them inside during hot days. The other three bases only have outdoor viewing areas. Most pandas will still stay outside even in warm weather, but a few might not come out. Just note that only Chengdu Panda Base and Panda Valley have both outdoor and indoor visiting areas. These two bases will move pandas indoors once the temperature is over 26℃, so you'll likely see more of them inside during hot days. The other three bases only have outdoor viewing areas. Most pandas will still stay outside even in warm weather, but a few might not come out. Best Visiting Time During the Day Pandas are most active in the morning, especially between 8:00 and 10:30 AM. That's when you're most likely to see them eating, climbing trees, and playing around. There's another feeding time in the afternoon around 2:00–3:00 PM, but since it's usually hotter then, many pandas prefer to nap during this time. Tips to Avoid the Crowds Try to enter the panda base as early as possible, especially at opening time. Autumn is less crowded, as spring and summer see more students and travel groups Tips to Avoid the Crowds Try to enter the panda base as early as possible, especially at opening time. Autumn is less crowded, as spring and summer see more students and travel groups How to Get to the Panda Base All the panda bases can be directly reached by car, ranging from 30min to 2.5h. For Chengdu Panda base, there is are metro to get to. For panda bases in Dujiangyan and Wolong, you need to take metro + bus, taking about 3 hours, and need a transfer. If you want to go to Bifengxia, you can take a bullet train and then take a taxi to get there. Note: A new mountain railway connecting Chengdu with Dujiangyan and Wolong is expected to open in 2026. At that time, it'll be more convenient to get to these places. Note: A new mountain railway connecting Chengdu with Dujiangyan and Wolong is expected to open in 2026. At that time, it'll be more convenient to get to these places. Do I Need to Stay Near the Panda Base? Even though some panda bases, like Wolong or Bifengxia, are over 2 hours away, it's still possible to do a day trip from Chengdu, so you don't need to stay overnight there, unless you also visit other nearby attractions. We recommend staying in the city center, in areas like Chunxi Road, Wide and Narrow Alleys, or near Jinli Ancient Street. These areas are all convenient and well-connected. However, if you plan to visit other nearby attractions in Dujiangyan, such as the Irrigation System or Mount Qingcheng, it might be worth spending a night in Dujiangyan for a more relaxed pace. Take a Panda Tour with Us We have specially designed panda tour packages, offering you a chance to get close to giant pandas. These can be tailored to include Mount Qingcheng and other Kung Fu Panda sites. Our travel advisors can also help you tailor-make a tour according to your requirements. Or see our popular China panda tours for inspiration: • 1-Day Chengdu Panda Tour: Maximize your stay in Chengdu and see pandas with our smart route. • 1-Day Dujiangyan Panda Keeper Program Tour: Time-smart day tour for a panda keeper program. • 1-Day Wolong Panda Keeper Program Tour: Explore the Real Hometown of Wild Pandas