ID: 7bd1cd2e48709c6b
Title: The Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car - Tips, Tour Plan
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/hong-kong/attraction/ngong-ping-360.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

This 25 minute, 5.7 kilometers long Ngong Ping 360 cable car is a visually spectacular bi-cable elevated car. It is one of the longest cableways in Asia. It takes people conveniently from Tung Chung Station near Hong Kong International Airport up to Lantau Peak, and it is quite popular. It is so popular in fact that lines get so long around lunchtime that it is quicker and perhaps more enjoyable to take a bus or taxi. We at China Highlights want you to enjoy your trip, so our half-day tour plan and information will help you have an optimal experience. In our Ngong Ping 360 half-day tour plan below, we provide recommendations for riding the cable car including prices and hours, and we give some suggestions about what to see and do on Lantau Peak and travel and transport information. What is the Ngong Ping 360? • Length: 5.7 kilometers (3.5 miles) • Altitude: From about 20m (70 ft) to 420m (1380 ft) • Duration: 25 minutes • Wait time: almost none at opening some mornings. But on busy holidays and weekends, the lines last more than an hour and a half. • 2 kinds of cable cars: glass bottomed gondolas (cost a little more, lines are shorter), regular (standard) car The Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car provides quick and scenic access to Lantau Peak The Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car is popular and provides riders with good high views of the sea north of Lantau Island, the green mountains, Hong Kong International Airport and the small city of Tung Chung. It is one of Lantau Island's prime sightseeing options. It links Tung Chung with Nong Ping Village adjacent to Po Lin Monastery on Lantau Peak. Lantau Peak is Lantau Island's tallest mountain and the second tallest mountain in Hong Kong. It is noted for the large beautiful country park area that extends from Lantau Peak to around Sunset Peak across the middle of the island. This area is one of the most beautiful parkland areas of Hong Kong with excellent hiking and scenery. The cable car is good transportation for those who want quick access to the Peak area and the country parks in the mountains. Road transportation between the populated northern side of Lantau and the middle and southern area of Lantau is somewhat difficult because there is a ban on most private vehicles. The roads through the mountain areas are circuitous and thankfully limited. It is an ideal transport method especially for pedestrians and hikers. Ngong Ping 360 Prices and Hours 2020 Weekdays: 10:00 am to 6:00 pm Weekends and public holidays: 9:00 am to 6:30 pm Round trip for adults: standard (regular) 235 HKD, Crystal Cabin (glass bottom) 315 HKD Round trip for children (ages 3 to 11): standard 110 HKD, Crystal Cabin 190 HKD Round trip for local seniors (ages 65 and above): standard 155 HKD, Crystal Cabin 235 HKD Single journey adults: standard 160 HKD, Crystal Cabin 215 HKD Single journey children: standard 75 HKD, Crystal Cabin 125 HKD Single journey seniors: standard 105 HKD, Crystal Cabin 160 HKD Our Ngong Ping 360 Half-Day Tour Plan For an optimal ride and touring experience on Lantau Peak coming in from the Hong Kong mainland or the airport, here are our recommendations about accessing the cable car, getting tickets, when to go and etc. and also suggestions about what to do once you get to the top. You'll experience Lantau Peak's best scenery, nature, culture and experiences for a varied and enjoyable visit. Morning Arrival - Going Up • Morning: MTR over Tsing Ma Bridge to Tung Chung Station • Ngong Ping 360 Cable Car • Lantau Peak/Ngong Ping Village/Po Lin Monastery Go to Tung Chung's Ngong Ping cable car: To start the day optimally, avoid the morning rush hour crowds and traffic. So go after 8:30, and try to be there when it opens around 10 am on weekdays and 9 am on weekends and holidays. Chinese crowds arrive around 11, and the line can get very long. So to avoid the lines and the pushy crowds, try to be there before the gate opens and definitely avoid the busy holidays and weekends. Try to purchase your tickets directly online or through agents before you go. Transport: For public transport, we recommend taking the MTR to Tung Chung Station. It will take you about 5 minutes to walk over to the cable car from Exit B. If you take the train, you get the added bonus of going over Tsing Ma Bridge. See the Transport information below. Transport from the airport: The airport is hundreds of meters away. The simplest way to get there is take a taxi for a few minutes (7 USD). See Transport below for bus transport information. We recommend Ngong Ping 360 as a refreshing break during a Hong Kong stopover. Our travel advisors can help with tour arrangements and private transport. We could facilitate a tour of Lantau and the region or accommodate you in assisting your Hong Kong visit in other ways according to your plans. We take care of the tickets and transportation. Get an Octopus card: Hong Kong is fairly unique in the world because you can purchase a card that you can swipe to pay for MTR and bus fares, and it might also be used to pay for many other things such as purchases at supermarkets, convenience stores, and restaurants. The card allows people to travel without standing in line to buy tickets. Cardholders simply swipe their cards, and their fares are deducted electronically. You can buy these cards at the MTR station ticket windows and then use them to conveniently pay for things all over Hong Kong. No ID is required to buy one, and you can add money as you wish and return the card to a station window for some money back. Alternative - Ride It Going Down For the same views but with much less waiting in line in the mornings and early afternoon, you can go up by another method and then come down on it. You could get up to Ngong Ping by Bus 23 from Tung Chung MTR in about 47 minutes (about 17 HKD (2 USD) except on Sundays and public holidays 27 HKD), taxi in about 25 minutes (about 5 USD), or by hiking up the Tei Tong Tsai Country Trail in about 2 or 3 hours. The hiking up option is a good option when the weather is good. The scenery is quite beautiful, and path crosses streams with frogs and little fish. The route starts at Shek Mun Kap Road that is about 2 kilometers south of the Tung Chung MTR Station. You could reach that starting point by walking south on Yu Tung Road or catching a taxi. However, if you are planning to hike on the peaks, it might be better to skip the walk up since peak hikes are strenuous. What to Do on Lantau Peak? Tour Ngong Ping Village The cable car terminal is in Ngong Ping Village that isn't a real village. It is was built recently as a tourist area and has shops and restaurants. If you are hungry, we recommend Honeymoon Dessert for the novel mango desserts and Thai sticky rice. Other restaurant options include a Subway. Po Lin Monastery is a 15 minute walk away. You'll find taxis, public bathrooms, and a small bus station in the area. Bus Transportation: Bus 23 goes to Tung Chung (17 HKD weekdays), and Bus 2 goes to Mui Wo for a ferry back to Central. See the Transport section below. The Pui O/Mui O area is recommended for restaurants and beaches too. Po Lin Monastery: It is a Buddhist worship area and tourist area with one of the world's biggest metal Buddhas. • Tian Tan Buddha is one of the world's largest seated outdoor bronze Buddha statues. • It has a popular vegetarian restaurant. The Lantau Island and Po Lin Monastery 1-Day Seat-in-Coach Tour is an option. The Lantau Trail goes from Lantau Peak to Sunset Peak Hike up Lantau Peak: If you are fit, from the Po Lim area you could hike up Lantau Peak in about an hour. It is a memorable adventure. But be careful if it is a rainy since the rocky steps are slick when they are wet. The rocks are also sort of unstable. It is a fairly hard rough stair climb for an hour. The climb up is the most difficult near the top. For more information, see the Lantau Peak section of Lantau Island Hiking Guide. Hiking the Lower Mountain Areas Hike lower down: However, you don't need to go all the way to the top to enjoy the scenery on Lantau Peak. You can stop along the way, enjoy the views and turn back. Alternatively, you can walk the Lantau Trail to Pak Kung Au in about 2 and a half to 3 hours. Pak Kung Au has a little bus station where you can catch the 3M to Pui O and Mui Wo or in the other direction to Tung Chung. Or catch a taxi. Since you are going downhill to Pak Kung Au, the walk down might not prove strenuous for you. Pak Kung Au is in between Sunset Peak and Lantau Peak. If you have the energy, you might want to continue on and walk the Lantau Trail up towards Sunset Peak. Depending on your condition, walking a full round trip from Pak Kung Au to the top of Sunset Peak and back down to the road takes about 3 to 5 hours. The Peaks and Parklands to Explore The sea seen from the Lantau Trail Lantau Peak is the second highest summit in Hong Kong with an elevation of 934 meters (3,064 feet). The climb, starting from Po Lin, takes about an hour and a half. It is one of the best spots to catch the sunrise. Sunset Mountain is the third highest peak in Hong Kong at a height of 869 meters (2,851 feet). From Sunset, you can hike to Mui Wo. The beautiful sunset is the best reward for your effort. The Lantau Trail traverses Lantau Peak. It circuits through three large country parks, goes over low mountains that you can hike to the top of, and passes by good beaches. It connects with other hiking paths. Cheungsha Beach is about 2 kilometers long, and it is relative The Best Time for a Visit The best time to visit Lantau Peak is from October to December when it is cool and dry. Rainy, cloudy weather usually commences in January. Then clouds and fog might the view. The summers are beautiful, warm, and sunny, but there are occasional tropical storms. Travel Essentials for Planning a Trip Lantau Island's Giant Buddha on the Ngong Ping plateau. The Ngong Ping 360 Tung Chung Station is outside CityGate Outlets Mall and the Tung Chung MTR Station on Lantau, about 20 kilometers (13 miles) due west of Central on Hong Kong Island. Flights: Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) is a few hundred meters away. It is very convenient for international travelers. Taxis take a few minutes and the fare is about 7 USD. You can also take a bus to the Tung Chung MTR Station area (there are several buses that run every 5 or 10 minutes for about 1.50 USD). Metro: From Central, you can get on the Tung Chung line in Hong Kong Station below the IFC Mall. The journey takes about 34 minutes and costs about 3.50 USD. Ferries: A slow ferry service is available between Mui Wo and Central's Pier 6 with a transportation time of about 55 minutes. The cost is 14.5 HKD for regular class. The fast ferry takes about 40 minutes and costs about 29 HKD. Prices are higher on both types of ships on Sundays and public holidays. We recommend the slow ferry. It takes about an hour, but the excellent scenery and relaxed ride is a good way to rest, unwind, and be refreshed. The fast ferry will get you back in about 40 minutes, but sometimes the ride is so bouncy people get seasickness. A 24-hour ferry service connects Pier 3 in Central and Discovery Bay. The transportation time is 25 minutes plus about 10 minutes to walk across the pier. • Victoria Peak: As the highest peak on Hong Kong Island, it is the best spot to have a bird's-eye view of Victoria Harbour. Half of it is parkland, and the other half is mall. A popular tram can take you to the top. • Noah's Ark Resort: It is a family friendly theme park designed after Noah's Ark especially for children. The hotel provides good accommodations, and the restaurant, beach, and park facilities make it a good family resort. • Disneyland Hong Kong - Intro, Tips, and Tour Plan (Updated 2019): It is part of the Disney chain of theme parks. It is on the east side of Lantau. Lantau is an excellent place for families with children. If you want to escape from the hustle and bustle of central Hong Kong, Lantau Island is the perfect place to go. Enjoy a delightful and worry-free tour with us. Our knowledgeable guide will share the interesting stories of the island with you and will lead you to the best spots for taking pictures. Your driver will ferry you conveniently with care. Here are Hong Kong tours that visit Lantau Island. You can modify these tours for going to the places you want around the region. • 4-Day Hong Kong Family Tour: Disneyland Park and highlights of Hong Kong. You can tell us if you want to modify the tour plan for various excursions on Lantau or other places in Hong Kong or China. We'll tailor-make a tour for you if you tell us what modes of travel and sightseeing options you prefer.