ID: 919da61301665d4
Title: How to Plan a 7-Day Itinerary in Yunnan
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yunnan/7-day-itinerary.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

With 7 days to spend in Yunnan, we will give you some ideas on how to plan a reasonable itinerary, which places to go to, and what to do. • Where to Go in 7 Days in Yunnan • A Classic 7-Day Yunnan Itinerary Suggestion • Best Times to Visit Yunnan • How Much Does 1 Week in Yunnan Cost • How to Get Around Yunnan Where to Go in 7 Days in Yunnan Generally speaking, a trip to Yunnan would include the following cities. These cities feature the most famous attractions. • Kunming (1–2 days): to see the Stone Forest • Dali (2–4 days): to see old towns (Dali Old Town, Xizhou Town, Shaxi Ancient Town, etc.), Erhai, and Cang Mountain • Lijiang (2–3 days): to see Lijiang Old Town and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, and learn about Naxi culture • Shangri-La (2–4 days): to see Songzanlin Monastery and Napa Lake, and learn about Tibetan culture For a 7-day trip in Yunnan, including the arrival and departure days, you would only have 5 full days of tourist time in Yunnan, which is not a very long time. Considering the comfort of the trip and the richness of the experience, we recommend choosing three of the four cities to visit. How to Choose from These Cities For first-timers, especially if you plan to fly from abroad, we suggest visiting Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang. This recommendation takes into account the connection of international traffic (international flights mainly land in Kunming) and these three cities are the top three destinations in Yunnan. It would let you see most of the classic scenic spots. If your flights to Yunnan are not limited to Kunming — for example, if you fly from other cities in China — and you want to experience more local ethnic scenery and culture, such as Tibetan culture, you could choose to visit Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La in your 7 days. (It's important to note that due to its high altitude, Shangri-La may cause altitude sickness, which should also be taken into account when planning your trip.) You could also make your choices based on your personal interests and needs. If you're unsure about how to choose, please let us know your specific requirements (such as the needs of children, parents, travel dates, etc.) and we will tailor an itinerary for you. Is It Possible to Include Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La in a 7-Day Itinerary? If you are okay with a more rushed schedule, then it is possible. This would require efficient travel between cities, which might mean starting very early (possibly at 6am) or traveling in the evening to the next destination to make the most of your time. If you wish to visit all four of these popular cities, we recommend extending your trip to 8 days. That way, you could avoid rushing and enjoy the scenery and experiences. Check out our 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour. For a more relaxed pace and richer activities, see our 10 Days in Yunnan: How to Plan, Accommodation, and Costs 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Itinerary Suggestion It is the most popular 7-day itinerary for a trip to Yunnan. You could not only see the iconic attractions but also have some outdoor and cultural experiences to enjoy with your family members or friends. Here is an overview of the itinerary: • Day 1: Kunming arrival • Day 2: Visit the Stone Forest and Dianchi Lake, and then transfer to Dali. • Day 3: Dali full-day sightseeing • Day 4: Visit Shaxi Ancient Town and stay overnight. • Day 5: Transfer to Lijiang • Day 6: Visit Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and Yuhu Village. • Day 7: Lijiang departure Day 1: Kunming Arrival Kunming is usually the first stop on a Yunnan tour. As the capital city of Yunnan, Kunming serves more flights and bullet trains from other cities in China and also from overseas, especially Southeast Asian countries, such as Singapore. Where to Stay in Kunming? Jinma Biji Archway is one of the busiest areas in Kunming, bustling with numerous shopping malls and night markets. However, it could be quite noisy, so we recommend staying in a quieter location nearby (within walking distance). This would not only satisfy your entertainment needs but also guarantee a relatively quiet sleeping environment. If you need hotel recommendations, you could consider Cachet Boutique Kunming Artime. This hotel is just a 15-minute walk (about 900 meters / 2,950 feet) from Jinma Biji Archway, offering both convenience and a more peaceful stay. If you prefer a quieter environment, then staying near Dianchi Lake would be better. You could also enjoy a morning walk by the lake and observe the local residents as they exercise. Where to Stay in Kunming? Jinma Biji Archway is one of the busiest areas in Kunming, bustling with numerous shopping malls and night markets. However, it could be quite noisy, so we recommend staying in a quieter location nearby (within walking distance). This would not only satisfy your entertainment needs but also guarantee a relatively quiet sleeping environment. If you need hotel recommendations, you could consider Cachet Boutique Kunming Artime. This hotel is just a 15-minute walk (about 900 meters / 2,950 feet) from Jinma Biji Archway, offering both convenience and a more peaceful stay. If you prefer a quieter environment, then staying near Dianchi Lake would be better. You could also enjoy a morning walk by the lake and observe the local residents as they exercise. You could visit Kunming's most famous attractions — the Stone Forest and Dianchi Lake. If you visit in winter, you could see and feed black-headed gulls at the Haigeng Dam at Dianchi Lake. It would take about half a day to visit the Stone Forest and 2 hours for Dianchi Lake. After visiting Dianchi Lake, take a bullet train to Dali. Insider tips: The Stone Forest is a must-see in Kunming and it draws nearly every traveler, so it could get quite crowded. To enjoy it more peacefully, try visiting between 9 and 10am when it's usually less busy. If you happen to be there during peak season (during Chinese public holidays), we suggest visiting Naigu Stone Forest as it is less crowded and even more breathtaking! The Stone Forest is a must-see in Kunming and it draws nearly every traveler, so it could get quite crowded. To enjoy it more peacefully, try visiting between 9 and 10am when it's usually less busy. If you happen to be there during peak season (during Chinese public holidays), we suggest visiting Naigu Stone Forest as it is less crowded and even more breathtaking! Spend the full day there to discover Dali's highlights. Discover Dali Old Town. There are markets, churches, shops, and a museum. You could take about 2 to 3 hours to explore it. In the afternoon, take a drive alongside Erhai. While enjoying the scenery of Erhai, you could also explore some of the famous attractions along its shores, such as Xizhou Town (visit typical Bai houses), Shuanglang Ancient Town (the first scenic town of Erhai), Zhoucheng Village (try the Bai people's tie-dyeing process), and finally enjoy some afternoon tea at the Santorini-inspired hotel beside the lake. If you are more active, you could also choose to visit Erhai by bike. Explore Erhai's west shore (more family-friendly and safer). Cycle from Cai Village, which is near Dali Old Town, to 'Little Forest' in Xiaguan district, a distance of about 13 km (8 miles). Where to Stay in Dali Dali Old Town is the most recommended area to stay in Dali for its various choices of accommodation, dining, and entertainment. If you prefer a room with a view of a lake and a quiet environment, you could consider staying near Erhai. Where to Stay in Dali Dali Old Town is the most recommended area to stay in Dali for its various choices of accommodation, dining, and entertainment. If you prefer a room with a view of a lake and a quiet environment, you could consider staying near Erhai. Day 4: Shaxi Ancient Town To learn more about Dali's history and the deep charm of its ancient towns, we recommend spending 1 day exploring Shaxi Ancient Town. It was once an important town on the ancient Tea Horse Road. It still preserves traditional Bai ethnic dwellings, ancient stone-paved streets, and some historically significant temples. Compared to other ancient towns, it is much quieter and has a more rustic atmosphere. You could enjoy some peaceful time by taking a leisurely stroll. If you prefer a more relaxed travel pace, we recommend spending a night in Shaxi Ancient Town. Then, head to Lijiang the next day, which is about a 1½-hour drive from Shaxi. Day 5: Transfer to Lijiang After arriving in Lijiang from Shaxi, you could explore Lijiang Old Town. If you still have time, we highly recommend Black Dragon Pool Park, which is about a 10-minute drive from the ancient town. There, you could see the majestic reflection of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and get a good distant view of the mountain. Where to Stay in Lijiang We highly recommend staying in Lijiang Old Town. It offers convenient transportation, a wide variety of dining and accommodation options, and a rich array of evening entertainment activities. Where to Stay in Lijiang We highly recommend staying in Lijiang Old Town. It offers convenient transportation, a wide variety of dining and accommodation options, and a rich array of evening entertainment activities. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain This day is for Lijiang's most famous attraction, Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, and a hidden gem, Yuhu Village. Spend half a day exploring the snow mountain. You could take a cable car ride to Glacier Park to ascend the summit and see the snow. Enjoy the incredibly blue river and meadow in Blue Moon Valley. Then, head to Yuhu Village. There, you could learn about the daily life and culture of the Naxi people by watching activities, such as Dongba papermaking and characters. Your 7-day Yunnan trip would end in Lijiang. You could have some free time to explore Lijiang by yourself before transferring to the airport. Best Times to Visit Yunnan Ancient pagoda in Dali with snow capped Mt Cangshan Spring and autumn are widely regarded as the best seasons to visit due to the more comfortable weather, clearer skies, and more beautiful landscapes. In addition to these two seasons, we also recommend winter, especially from November to December. During this period, there are fewer tourists in Yunnan and the sunshine remains abundant. While it may be a bit chilly in the mornings and evenings, the midday temperatures are quite pleasant. The winter scenery is still stunning, especially if you're looking to see snowcapped mountains. See more on the Best Times to Visit Yunnan. How Much Does 1 Week in Yunnan Cost? The cost might depend on factors like accommodation preferences, travel style, activities, and dining choices. For our private services, it would cost about 1,200 USD to 1,500 USD per person for 7 days, including the hotels, private transfers and guides, transportation within Yunnan, and attraction and activity fees. In Yunnan, a 4-star or boutique hotel typically costs about $80 to $100 per night, while a luxury 5-star hotel ranges from $140 to $150 per night. As for entrance fees, the more expensive sites include Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, which may cost about $30 to $40. Tiger Leaping Gorge has an entry fee of about $15. Most ancient towns are free to enter but some attractions within them, such as temples, require a separate ticket, usually priced at about $2 to $4. For dining, a budget-friendly option, such as a bowl of local rice noodles, costs about $2 to $3. If you're looking for a nicer local restaurant, expect to spend about $10 per person. For Western cuisine in a star-rated hotel, the price is about $20 per person. 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments How to Get Around Yunnan The best way to get around Yunnan is by combining flights, high-speed trains, and private transfers. For shorter trips, such as from Kunming to Dali, a high-speed train is more convenient. For longer journeys, such as from Kunming to Shangri-La, flights are recommended. For certain routes between cities, we suggest using a private car, such as from Dali to Lijiang or Lijiang to Shangri-La, as there are some scenic spots along the way, such as Shaxi Ancient Town and Tiger Leaping Gorge. Private transfers offer more flexibility. Of course, if you don't plan to visit these sites, you could also opt for high-speed trains between these cities. See more on Yunnan Transportation: How to Get To/Around Yunnan. More 7-Day Yunnan Itinerary Options • 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour • 7-Day Shangri-La, Deqin, and Tacheng Adventure Tour • 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups Alternatively, you could customize your itinerary based on your group size, travel time, interests, and other requirements. Just contact us.