ID: 2e59c93676dfb585
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Xi’an and Zhangjiajie (2026)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-zhangjiajie-and-xian.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Being the capital of 13 dynasties in ancient China, Xi'an offers you unparalleled insights into China's older history and traditions. By contrast, Zhangjiajie, renowned for its unique sandstone-pillar landscape, invites you to embark on an adventure integrating nature sightseeing and outdoor activities. Do you have questions about how to arrange a personalized tour of these two destinations that is hassle-free and within budget? Based in China for over 20 years, we confidently provide the following seven easy steps for an awesome trip. • Transfer between Xi'an and Zhangjiajie • Top Experiences in Xi'an and Zhangjiajie • Decided How Long to Spend • A Classic Xi'an and Zhangjiajie Itinerary • Budget for Xi'an and Zhangjiajie Tour • Best Times to Visit Xi'an and Zhangjiajie • Recommended Accommodation Choices How to Travel between Xi'an and Zhangjiajie • By plane: 1½ hours range, direct, fastest, and most convenient • By bullet train: takes about 9 hours and requires a transfer in Changsha We recommend traveling between Xi'an and Zhangjiajie by plane, which is time-saving and convenient. There is little difference in the price of bullet train and plane tickets. In addition, a flight ticket could be even cheaper than a train ticket during the shoulder season! Top Things to Do in Xi'an and Zhangjiajie The Top Experiences in Xi'an • Impressed by Terracotta Warriors You'll witness the history of China's first dynasty coming alive. To avoid the large crowds, it is better to arrive at the site before 9 am or after 4 pm. Special recommendation: If you're looking for a more engaging or meaningful experience, we recommend creating your unique clay warrior in a cave-dwelling family's workshop after visiting the Terracotta Army to make the trip more fun. This is especially suitable for families with kids. • Enjoy panoramic views on the City Wall The medieval City Wall has over 2,000 years of history. If you like cycling or want some fun family time, it would be an exciting experience to cycle on the wall. Cycle for part of the journey or just walk to understand how it protected the city from being attacked, and admire the sights where history and modernity merge. Stroll on the City Wall • Step into the Muslim Quarter Take a food adventure including a visit to the Great Mosque and Gao Family Courtyard, allowing you to immerse yourself in the atmosphere of the bustling streets while relishing a variety of distinctive local snacks. • Wander around Big Wild Goose Pagoda at night The surrounding area lights up from 7 pm to 11 pm and becomes Grand Tang Dynasty Ever Bright City. Wear Han Chinese clothing and feel as though you have traveled back thousands of years to experience the prosperity of the Tang Dynasty. Giant Wild Goose Pagoda • Explore the city's long history in Xi'an Museum Not as crowded and difficult to book as Shaanxi History Museum, Xi'an Museum's collections reflect the long history of Xi'an. Historical exhibits and modern cultural relics await your discovery. • Embark on an adventurous hike up Mount Hua Encounter precipitous scenery, such as sheer cliffs and plunging ravines, which make ascending Mount Hua challenging but exhilarating. The mountain is also steeped in ancient Taoist traditions. Spectacular view of Mount. Hua Top Experiences in Zhangjiajie • Explore Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Traverse the towering sandstone pillars on Tianzi Mountain and marvel at Hallelujah Mountain (named after Avatar's floating peaks). Take the record-breaking Bailong Elevator to experience descending from the peaks area in 2 minutes. Special recommendation: As one of the most popular destinations, the National Forest Park is usually particularly bustling, especially during the summer vacation (July and August). If you're good at walking and seek a quieter spot with fewer crowds, we recommend Sky Field Garden. Located in the center of the Old House Area on Tianzi Mountain, Sky Field Garden allows you to enjoy unique scenery and offers excellent photo spots. If you're interested, feel free to contact us. Zhangjiajie National Forest Park • Walk along the glass bridge The biggest attraction in Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon is the glass bridge since the scenery is not as good as in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. We recommend you spend your time experiencing the thrill of the glass bridge, enjoying the expansive views, and taking extraordinary photographs, instead of taking the 4-hour walk through the canyon. Special recommendation: For adventure enthusiasts, there are also pulse-racing outdoor activities, such as bungee jumping and a via ferrata, waiting for you to take on the challenge. • Take the cableway to Tianmen Mountain Start from the city center and enjoy views of the city, dense forests, and valleys receding into the distance beneath your feet in this 30-minute cable car journey. End your trip at the crown of the mountain, take a final glimpse down, and ascend to the magnificent Tianmen Cave, which leaves many in awe. Special recommendation: Few visitors know that there is a unique viewpoint for Tianmen Cave. Go biking behind Tianmen Mountain or simply enjoy afternoon tea beside the beautiful reservoir there, a non-touristy area where you could enjoy the quiet side of Tianmen Cave and its reflection on the reservoir's surface. • Take a wooden boat across Baofeng Lake A leisurely wooden boat journey would take you on a scenic tour of verdant mountains and the jade-colored lake. Refresh your mind as the local minority people sing traditional songs. How Long to Spend in Xi'an and Zhangjiajie A classic itinerary covering Xi'an and Zhangjiajie usually lasts about a week, with 2–3 days allocated for Xi'an and 3–4 days for Zhangjiajie. If you want to explore more destinations around Xi'an or Zhangjiajie, such as Mount Hua, Fenghuang Ancient Town, and Furong Ancient Town, you should stay for an extra 1–3 days. You could spend an extra day in Xi'an for Huashan and extend your Zhangjiajie trip to Fenghuang Ancient Town (2 days) or Furong Ancient Town (1 day). A Classic 6-Day Xi'an and Zhangjiajie Itinerary This itinerary includes the main attractions in Xi'an and Zhangjiajie: • Day 1: Arrive in Xi'an and check in to your hotel • Day 2: The Terracotta Army, Xi'an City Wall, stroll around Big Wild Goose Pagoda at night • Day 3: Xi'an Museum, the Muslim Quarter, transfer to Zhangjiajie with a night flight • Day 4: Zhangjiajie National Forest Park • Day 5: Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon (the glass bridge) and Baofeng Lake • Day 6: Tianmen Mountain and Zhangjiajie departure 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery 14-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie - Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Private Tour China Natural Wonders Discovery If you are interested in other attractions around Xi'an or Zhangjiajie, here are several suggested plans for you: Attraction Time Needed Location Itinerary Mount Hua 1 extra day Around Xi'an Same day return Fenghuang Ancient Town 2 extra days Around Zhangjiajie Spend a night in Fenghuang Ancient Town Furong Ancient Town 1 extra day Around Zhangjiajie Same day return Brilliant Fenghuang Ancient Town If you are interested in Mount Hua, see our 8-Day Xi'an and Zhangjiajie Highlights Tour. Please feel free to contact us and let us know what you're interested in visiting. Our team can help plan an itinerary that is tailor-made for you. Budget for A Xi'an and Zhangjiajie Tour A private tour to Xi'an and Zhangjiajie usually costs about US$180–220 per person per day based on a group of 2–5 people, including attraction tickets, domestic transfers, a private vehicle, accommodation (4-star hotels), and a local guide. The above is an average price range. Let us know your interests to receive a specific quote and an itinerary that's tailor-made for you. In general, the travel cost for Zhangjiajie is higher than that of Xi'an. The attraction tickets and transportation fees for Zhangjiajie are more expensive in particular. Xi'an has better transportation facilities and most of its attractions can be reached directly by subway. There is no subway in Zhangjiajie, so you would need to take a cab or shuttle bus. Accommodation fees and catering expenses are similar between these two destinations. The travel costs are higher (by 50 to 100%) in the following peak periods, mainly for hotel prices and airfares, so, if you plan to travel during these times, we recommend that you book your trip well in advance (by at least 2 or 3 months): • Summer vacation (July to August) • Labor Day (May 1–3) • National Day (October 1–7) • The Spring Festival (late January or early to mid-February) For a hassle-free trip, select our private tour service, and we would make the most of these busier times. Best Times to Visit Xi'an and Zhangjiajie Zhangjiajie is a natural spot. Natural attractions change greatly under the influence of the seasons and weather, while most cultural sites in Xi'an are rarely affected by these factors. If your schedule is flexible and you're looking for a better scenic experience, we suggest you give more priority to Zhangjiajie's weather conditions. The best times to visit Zhangjiajie and Xi'an are April to May, September, and mid-October to mid-November. These months offer comfortable weather, beautiful scenery, and comparatively fewer people. In September, Xi'an experiences more frequent autumn rain while Zhangjiajie has similar moderate amount of rainfall on fewer days, but Xi'an's rain has less impact on touring as more of Xi'an's attractions are indoors. The first week of May and that of October also offer good weather and scenery, but they are two peak travel periods in China. Tourists swarm like ants and higher prices could also be expected. If you make a summer visit, you should prepare for the heat, heavy rain, and crowds: • Summer is the rainiest season in both Zhangjiajie and Xi'an. Xi'an is hotter than Zhangjiajie and Xi'an's temperature could reach up to 40°C (104°F). There are cool mountain breezes in Zhangjiajie since the temperature on the mountains is significantly lower. It is also the best time for waterfalls and stream viewing in Zhangjiajie. • Crowds and long queues are inevitable, especially in July and August, but there are also some tips to avoid the large crowds. Your guide could lead you to hidden places that are less frequented by tourists for some unique viewpoints, such as Sky Field Garden in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park and the reservoir behind Tianmen Mountain. There is also a VIP aisle for travel agents to skip the lines. Travel with us and your guide would try his/her best to avoid the crowds. December to March is the tourist off-season. The weather is dry and cold, but you may have the chance to appreciate charming snowscapes in both Xi'an and Zhangjiajie, especially in December and January. The best places to admire winter scenery in Zhangjiajie are Tianmen Mountain and Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. Recommended Accommodation Choices Where to Stay in Xi'an The Bell Tower and Big Wild Goose Pagoda vicinities are two recommended areas to stay in Xi'an. The Bell Tower has a central location, allowing for convenient transportation and multiple accommodation options. Its environs is the best choice for most first-timers, although it could be a little noisy. Big Wild Goose Pagoda is recommended if you seek a relatively quieter environment. You could spend time experiencing the nightlife at nearby Grand Tang Dynasty Ever Bright City. The hotels around the area also offer more reasonable prices, but it is further from the city center, and the dining options are not as plentiful as those around the Bell Tower. Where to Stay in Zhangjiajie We recommend staying in Wulingyuan Scenic Area beside Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. It is the choice of most tourists. Most of the attractions on a Zhangjiajie itinerary are concentrated in Wulingyuan Scenic Area, so you would enjoy convenient access, pleasant scenery, and fresh air if you stay there. For those who have to catch a train or flight, it is better to stay in the city center the night before you leave Zhangjiajie. It takes only 10–20 minutes to get to the airport or railway stations from the downtown area.