ID: 73f8d7830dcbcb8a
Title: Yunnan Weather in July 2026: Top Places, Crowds, Cost
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yunnan/weather-in-july.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

July in Yunnan is one of the best times to escape from the summer heat, but it is also the peak season accompanied by frequent showers and large crowds during summer vacations. Despite the rainfall and crowds, Yunnan is vibrant at this time, offering lush meadows and forests, the Bai ethnic Torch Festival celebration, and a surging river in Tiger Leaping Gorge. • Yunnan Weather in July • Top 5 Places to Visit • Crowds and Costs Yunnan Weather in July In July, Yunnan is suitable for enjoying a cool summer in most areas, with average temperatures of about 18°C to 25°C (64–77°F). However, you would also experience mostly rainy days (over 20 days) due to it being the peak of the rainy season. The weather in July could be unpredictable with frequent showers. Typically, the rainfall doesn't last all day. After the rain stops, it might clear up and be bright with large white clouds. The Average Daily Temperature in July City Average Daytime Temperature Average Nighttime Temperature Kunming 23°C (73°F) 17°C (63°F) Dali 25°C (77°F) 15°C (59°F) Lijiang 25°C (77°F) 14°C (57°F) Shangri-La 20°C (68°F) 9°C (48°F) Xishuangbanna 31°C (88°F) 22°C (72°F) In Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang, it is warm during the day and you could wear light summer clothing. However, during cool mornings and evenings, a thin coat or shawl is advisable. Shangri-La is relatively cool, even in July. Therefore, opt for warmer clothing, such as long dresses, pants, sweaters, and coats. In Xishuangbanna, the weather is humid and hot with frequent rainfall, while evenings are comfortable. Cool summer clothing is ideal for the whole day. Despite the frequent rain in July, UV intensity remains high in Yunnan. Don't forget to take your raincoat or umbrella, as well as take precautions against the UV rays. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan Top Places to Visit in July July is suitable to catch a green summer in Lijiang, Dali, and Shangri-La, witness the majestic Tiger Leaping Gorge, and capture the colorful Kunming. Although there is more rainfall, Lijiang is still enchanting in July. with verdant green landscapes, leisurely ancient towns, and tranquil blue rivers. During summertime, Jade Dragon Snow Mountain is not ideal for viewing snow due to minimal snow on the summit. Additionally, due to the peak season, cableway queues could take up to 2 hours, so if you prefer not to wait too long, consider skipping ascending. Alternatively, it is best to visit Spruce Meadow and Blue Moon Valley. Spruce Meadow appears fresh green in July, resembling a scene from The Wizard of Oz. While in Blue Moon Valley, the crystal-clear water glitters like blue gems, especially on sunny days. Due to the peak season, you would encounter large crowds while visiting Lijiang Old Town. Comparatively, the nearby Shuhe Ancient Town is more peaceful with fewer crowds. This authentic ancient town is ideal for immersing yourself in the leisurely atmosphere, even on rainy days. July is also perfect for admiring the fully bloomed white flowers in Lugu Lake. With relatively remote locations, it attracts fewer visitors even in the peak season. Shangri-La ranch scenery July is one of the most beautiful months to visit Shangri-La. The warmth and rain bring colors and animation to this holy land, making it ideal to admire the pure, serene, and picturesque scenery. At this time, Napa Lake has transformed into a vast green pasture. Colorful wildflowers bloom amid meadows, with horses, yaks, and lambs grazing quietly, creating a tranquil sight. Pudacuo National Park is also full of the vibrant charm of pristine nature. The gorgeous scenery is brought to life by verdant hills, lush meadows, forests, and brimming lakes. While walking along the plank boardwalk through the forests, you could interact with cute squirrels or pick mushrooms. If you're interested in ethnic culture, July is also perfect for exploring Tibetan culture, as indoor activities are less affected by the weather. For example, having a Tibetan home visit, interacting with the lama in Songzanlin Monastery, or enjoying a tangka painting experience. See our 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure Tour. Blue and verdant Erhai Lake With comfortable temperatures, July is ideal for experiencing unique sights and enjoyable activities in Dali. During this month, Erhai Lake showcases captivating deep blue water or casts a gray tone depending on the weather. However, the riverside, covered in lush greenery, always thrives beautifully. In addition, you're more likely to see rainbows over the lake and across the sky. When the sky clears up, cycling leisurely alongside the lake could be pleasant, or admiring a splendid and romantic sunset on the east shore of Erhai. To capture idyllic sights, you could head to Xizhou Town or Shaxi Ancient Town to soak yourself in verdant paddy fields. Bai people celebrate their Torch Festival on the 25th day of the sixth month of the lunar calendar (around late July). In Dali Old Town, Xizhou Town, or Shaxi Ancient Town, you could participate in the grand celebration. • 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups • 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour 4. Tiger Leaping Gorge July is one of the best times to admire the majestic Tiger Leaping Gorge. Due to the rain, the river at the bottom of the gorge is turbulent with the fastest flow rate, creating a stunning, surging, and precipitous landscape. During this time, you could also admire verdant mountains with lush vegetation. The tranquil vibrant greenery and the roaring yellow turbulent flow create a striking contrast, making Tiger Leaping Gorge more magnificent. For hiking enthusiasts, July may be not suitable for hiking as it experiences more rainy days. Heavy rain could occasionally lead to flooding, landslides, and mudslides, resulting in temporary trail closures. However, it is okay to hike when there are sunny days (the weather is changeable and it is advisable to monitor the weather). It is better to be accompanied and guided by a local guide. Kunming is comfortable with cool and moist weather during this time. As the City of Eternal Spring, blooming summer flowers, such as lotuses, hydrangeas, and bougainvilleas, still adorn nearly every corner, creating an enchanting sight. To enjoy a mesmerizing floral spectacle, immerse yourself in Dounan Flower Market, which offers an abundance of fresh flowers at very affordable prices. The breathtaking Stone Forest is always a popular attraction, especially during summer vacations. For a better experience, consider Naigu Stone Forest, where you could avoid large crowds while admiring the stunning landscape. With comfortable temperatures, July is also a pleasant time for taking a food adventure in Kunming Old Street, especially with your family or friends. You could savor tender mushrooms, crossing-the-bridge rice noodles, and fresh flower milk. Due to the summer vacations (July and August), long queues and large crowds could be seen everywhere in Yunnan, especially at popular attractions. In addition, airfares and accommodation prices would typically rise by 10–30%. You'd better book your trip 1–2 months in advance as the ticket availability tends to be tight during this time. We can arrange VIP channels in some attractions or cleverly lead you to some alternative attractions. However, the lines and crowds are still unavoidable sometimes. Tips for Avoiding Crowds • Travel dates: Early July sees fewer visitors as schools have just begun the summer break and many families with kids are still planning their summer vacations. • Timing: Visit in the early morning. For example, Lijiang Old Town is quieter before 10 am. • Destination choices: Opt for lesser-visited spots, such as Naigu Stone Forest, Shaxi Ancient Town, or Lugu Lake. • Stagger your visits: For example, at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, consider visiting Blue Moon Valley first in the morning as most travelers tend to queue for Glacier Park (the summit) at that time. Recommended Yunnan Tours • 8-Day Yunnan Tour: Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang • 12-Day Yunnan and Tibet Tour • Discover more Yunnan tours