ID: 4feb25df96777268
Title: Dali Ancient Town — Top Things to Do in the Ancient City of Dali
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/dali/attraction/ancient-city-of-dali.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Dali Ancient Town is one of Yunnan's most popular tourist destinations. It has a history of 1,200 years and was the capital of the Nanzhao kingdom (738–902). Bai and Yi are its main ethnic minorities. It faces Er Lake to the east and the Cang Mountains to the west. Dali Ancient Town has historical sites, medieval buildings, temples, and streets lined with shops, restaurants, bars, and hotels. It is a nice place to hang out. • Location: Dali, Yunnan, China • Attractions: Wuhua Tower, Foreigners' Street, and Dali Catholic Church • Open: all day • Entry: free • Time needed: half a day • Best times to visit: all year around • Top Things to Do in Dali Ancient Town • Where to Stay in Dali Ancient Town • How to Get to Dali Ancient Town • Best Time to Visit Dali Ancient Town 3 Things to Do in Dali Ancient Town To explore Dali Ancient Town, you could slow down your pace. Wander around to see temples and architecture that's 1,000 years old, buy beautiful souvenirs and objects of art, learn about the history of the area and of the native peoples, or just find a coffee shop to enjoy the moment. 1. Visit Ancient Buildings and Take Photos Dali Ancient Town is laid out in a grid. Four main city gate towers stand on the axes. No vehicles are allowed in the ancient city of Dali. This is good for pedestrians. Ancient and historic buildings are one of the highlights in Dali Ancient Town. Here are some iconic buildings recommended for you, which are also good places for photos: • South Gate: It is the oldest and grandest architecture in Dali Ancient Town. You can overlook the whole of Erhai Lake from the wall. • Wuhua Tower: It was burned down in a war, but the building you see now was rebuilt. From the top of the tower you will get a full view of the whole ancient city. It is especially beautiful when lit at night. • The Catholic Church: It is the only Bai ethnic-style church in China, a unique embodiment of the combination of Chinese and Western culture. • Grand Marshal's Mansion(Dali Municipal Museum): It used to be a government office in ancient times. Now it is also called Dali Museum. It is the best place to learn about Dali Ancient Town's culture. • Dali Rural Film History Museum: It is the first theme museum focused on the history of rural films in China. • Dalli Art Factory: This art factory was transformed from a disused sheet factory. There are bookstores, galleries, cafés, theaters, original clothing stores, photography studios, and so on. • Red Dragon Well (Honglongjing): This is a bustling street with a quaint vibe, red lantern decorations, and bars. It is also a popular Instagram spot and is perfect for photography. 2. Explore the Streets A stroll through the ancient city with its stone-paved streets, traditional-style houses, and numerous gardens is an interesting excursion. Many shops will open after 10am. Evening is the busiest time. You will find all kinds of snack bars, souvenir shops, cafes, bookstores, and more on both sides of the streets. Popular streets in Dali Ancient Town include: • Foreigners' Street: In the early 1980s, when Dali tourism was just emerging, the street was the most visited place by foreign visitors, hence its name. It is Dali's oldest commercial street. • Renmin Road: It is the longest street in Dali Ancient Town and also the most bustling street at night. You will find many nice restaurants and bars there. • Fuxing Road: It is the main street in Dali Ancient Town. The architecture along the road keeps its Ming and Qing Dynasty (1368–1912) styles and rivers flow at both ends of the street outside the town walls. Our 7-Day Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang Tour will take you to explore Dali Ancient Town. Various snack bars or restaurants lining the streets are also a highlight in Dali Ancient Town. Western-style restaurants, local foods, dessert shops, and cafés are all available there. Also, don't miss the chance to sample local specialties, such as rushan (cow's milk cheese), cold chicken rice noodles, and wild mushrooms. Here are some popular restaurants and cafés in Dali Ancient Town: • Wo Zai Dali Deng Ni (我在大理等你 'I'm in Dali Waiting for You') on Renmin Road is best for wild mushroom hot pot and other Dali cuisines. • Fly Me To The Moon (向月球飞去) on Guangwu Road is best for a Western brunch. • Zaihuishou (再回首 'Again Look Back') on Renmin Road is best for its chicken rice noodles. • The Bakery No.88 on Renmin Road is best for various Western pastries. • The Sweet Tooth on Boai Road is a good place for dessert and coffee. Where to Stay in Dali Ancient Town Dali Ancient Town is one of the busiest and most active areas in Dali city. If you prefer a colorful nightlife and shopping, staying in Dali Ancient Town is a great choice. Staying inside the old town is convenient, but it may be a little noisy. If you like the old town's convenient location and also want a quiet environment, you could consider Honglongjing Hotel, which is several minutes' walk from Renmin Road. Here are four major accommodation areas in Dali Ancient Town with their advantages and who they are particularly suited to: South Gate: a Bustling Area • Convenient transportation, close to more attractions, a tourist center • Families, first-timers West Gate (Cangshan Gate): a Quiet Area • Close to Cang Mountain, convenient for going to markets • Families with kids or seniors, those seeking a quiet area East Gate (Er'hai Gate): an Entertainment Area • Close to Er Lake, more dining and accommodation options, diverse nightlife • Foodies, those who prefer a livelier area North Gate: a Residential Area • Quiet, less crowded • Those wishing to sojourn, travelers wishing to experience local life If you have any questions about picking a hotel in Dali, feel free to contact us. We will arrange the ideal hotel for you and we can design your ideal itinerary. 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments How to Get to Dali Ancient Town Dali Ancient Town is about 17 km (11 miles) from Dali Railway Station and 30 km (19 miles) from Dali Airport. Taking a taxi or having private transport is the best and fastest way to get to Dali Ancient Town. From Dali Railway Station • By private car/taxi: 40 minutes • By bus: 1 hour • By private car/taxi/express bus: 1 hour Best Times to Visit Dali Ancient Town From March to May, springtime is one of the best times to visit Dali Ancient Town. There are smaller crowds, more clear days, and comfortable daytime temperatures averaging 20–25°C (68–77°F). Dali Ancient Town is romantic and vibrant with flower blossoms and festival celebrations. October to November is another one of the best times to visit. It also offers fewer crowds and similar weather to spring, but it has different scenery. In November, rows of golden ginkgo trees on Yu'er Road beside West Gate brighten the old town with their delightful yellow hue. From June to September, you could enjoy a cooler summer than most of surrounding East Asia, with temperatures averaging 15–25°C (59–77°F). You may encounter showers, but the rainfall makes summer the best time to savor fresh and tender mushrooms in local restaurants. December to February is the off-season, but Dali Ancient Town still invites you with a cost-effective bargain, winter-blooming cherry blossoms (mid-December to January), and a mild winter. The daytime temperature can reach about 15°C (59°F), but sometimes it may also snow. The UV rays in Dali are intense all year round, so it's essential to take sun protection while visiting Dali Ancient Town. In addition, the temperature could vary widely from day to night. Take a warm coat to make yourself comfortable. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan When to Visit: in the Daytime or at Night • Daytime is quiet, with fewer crowds, it's suitable for strolling and visiting attractions. • Evening is bustling, with diverse and vibrant nightlife and evening shows. Just like Lijiang Old Town, Dali Ancient Town is also a popular accommodation spot, which appears quiet in the daytime and bustling at night. We recommend visiting nearby attractions first during the day and then returning to Dali Ancient Town for a leisurely stroll and exploring at night. Alternatively, you could spend some time doing each of these respectively to experience the different atmospheres between day and night. Recommended tour route (about 2 hours to visit): South Gate → Dali Art Factory → Wuhua Tower → Foreigners' Street The Cangshan Mountains • About 2 km (1 mile), 10 to 20 minutes' drive from Dali Ancient Town Nineteen high peaks and 18 streams, ponds, waterfalls, great hiking areas, and old temples could be visited at Cang Mountain. The highest peak is always covered in snow. Dali Ancient Town is nestled at the foot of the Cang Mountains. On almost every west-facing street in the town, you could capture photos that frame both the old town and the majestic mountains. The Cangshan Mountains • About 5 km (3 miles), 20 minutes' drive from Dali Ancient Town Its reflection is a striking sight in the sunlight. Starting from Caicun Wharf or Longkan Wharf, biking or motorcycling around Er Lake is a wonderful activity. You would see Russian gulls in winter. The Three Pagodas of Dali • About 2½ kilometers (1½ miles) from Dali Ancient Town The Three Pagodas are three of the most famous Buddhist pagodas in China. The tallest one in the central was built during the reign of a king of the Nanzhao Kingdom about 1,150 years ago. 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life Plan a Dali Tour with Us If you are planning a tour of Dali, you could get some inspiration from our most popular customizable Dali tours below. We will take care of your transportation, itinerary arrangements, accommodation, tickets, and all the other things needed to make a trip hassle-free and enjoyable. • 4-Day Essence Dali Tour — Feel a Dynamic Dali • 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour — Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan • 7-Day Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang Tour — A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan • Or contact us to create a Dali tour according to your requirements.