ID: 27b97981cddf4c52
Title: Hong Kong to Shenzhen Train - Book the Fastest Train
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/china-trains/hong-kong-shenzhen-train.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China Train Ticket Booking China Train Int’l Train from China Please Select China Train Ticket Booking China Train Int’l Train from China Please Select • China Train • Int’l Train from China Hong Kong to Shenzhen and Shenzhen to Hong Kong high-speed trains operate at Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station and Shenzhen North Railway Station. Additionally, some of the trains make a stop at Futian, which serves as an intermediate station. For your utmost convenience, there are an impressive 121 pairs of bullet trains shuttling between Hong Kong and Shenzhen daily. These trains boast a high frequency, with an average interval time of just around 15 minutes, ensuring you have ample options throughout the day for your travel needs. If speed is of the essence, you'll be delighted to know that some of the fastest trains can whisk you from Hong Kong to Futian, Shenzhen's vibrant central business district, in a mere 14 minutes. With such swift service, opting for the high-speed train is undoubtedly the savvy choice for travelers seeking efficient and seamless transportation between these bustling metropolises. • Distance: 39 kilometers (24 miles) • Duration: 14 to 25 minutes • Number of daily trains: 92 pairs • Terminals: Futian Railway Station, Shenzhen North Railway Station, Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station • Main stops: Hong Kong, Futian, Shenzhen Hong Kong to Shenzhen High-Speed Railway Route Map Hong Kong to Shenzhen High-Speed Train Schedules (Updated on March 8th, 2025) West Kowloon Station "香港西九龙" to Shenzhen North Station "深圳北" Train Number Departure Time Arrival Time Duration G5624 07:01 07:19 18 minutes G5628 09:35 09:53 18 minutes G6554 09:54 10:18 24 minutes G5630 10:50 11:14 24 minutes G6568 11:42 12:00 18 minutes G5634 15:45 16:03 18 minutes G5614 20:45 21:14 29 minutes G6506 22:21 22:46 25 minutes West Kowloon Station "香港西九龙" to Futian Station "福田" G5820 07:01 07:21 14 minutes G5816 10:24 10:38 14 minutes G5806 15:27 15:41 14 minutes G5608 23:00 23:14 14 minutes There are 137 daily high-speed trains traveling from Hong Kong to Shenzhen. Departure time is from 07:01 to 23:00. Shenzhen to Hong Kong High-Speed Train Schedules (Updated on March 8th, 2025) Shenzhen North Station "深圳北" to West Kowloon Station "香港西九龙" Train Number Departure Time Arrival Time Duration G5669 06:35 07:00 25 minutes G5609 08:03 08:22 19 minutes G6505 08:36 09:03 27 minutes G5629 10:11 10:29 18 minutes G5643 12:08 12:26 18 minutes G5623 15:47 16:06 19 minutes G6549 19:03 19:27 24 minutes G6563 22:21 22:45 24 minutes Futian Station "福田" to West Kowloon Station "香港西九龙" G5669 06:45 07:00 15 minutes G5645 13:31 13:45 14 minutes G5805 15:58 16:12 14 minutes G5823 20:35 20:50 15 minutes There are 121 Shenzhen to Hong Kong bullet trains evey day, departing from 06:44 to 22:04. Hong Kong - Shenzhen High-Speed Train Ticket Fares Business Class First Class Second Class US$29 (CNY204) US$16 (CNY109) US$10 (CNY68) How to Book Hong Kong – Shenzhen High-Speed Train Tickets When Do Reservations Open The reservations of high-speed train tickets between Hong Kong and Shenzhen open 15 days before departure. Two Ways to Buy Hong Kong – Shenzhen High-Speed Train Ticket • Booking online with a travel agency • Booking at a train station Booking tickets online in advance is recommended. China Highlights provides professional ticketing service and after-sale support. After booking, you can choose to collect your paper tickets at a train station or have them delivered to your hotel or address in China. Read more about How to Buy Train Tickets in China. Customs and Immigrations In order to offer convenience to passengers, Hong Kong West Kowloon Railway Station sets up with customs facilities for passengers to go through formalities before boarding the train and not requiring any stops at the Hong Kong border. If you take high-speed trains from Hong Kong to Shenzhen, you need to go through the customs at the Departure Hall on -3F at Hong Kong West Kowloon Station. For trains from Shenzhen to Hong Kong, go through the customs at the Arrival Hall on -2F. Please ensure that you complete the 'Departure Card' and the 'Arrival Card' before you go to the officer. If you fail to obtain and complete these cards, you would be sent back to collect and fill-in the forms, and queue again. Please be aware that queues can be long and this will cause some inconvenience with the possibility of you missing your train. All your luggage must also go through security checks and x-rayed. We advise that you arrive at the train station at least 2 hours before your departure time. Transportation to Hong Kong West Kowloon Station The West Kowloon Station has been put into service for nearly five years. It is the largest underground train station in the world. Located between MTR Austin Station and MTR Kowloon Station, this station has easy access to other parts of Hong Kong by bus, metro and taxi. Hong Kong West Kowloon High-Speed Train Station From Hong Kong Airport to West Kowloon Station • By Hong Kong metro: Airport Express - Tung Chung Line - Tuen Ma Line; Takes around 45 minutes and costs US$9 • By bus: A21 or N21; Takes around one hour and costs US$4 to US$6 Transportation to Shenzhen North Station As one of the most important stations, as well as the largest and busiest transportation hub in the city, Shenzhen North Station is the terminus of Guangzhou–Shenzhen–Hong Kong Express Rail Link. It is located far from downtown of Shenzhen. From Shenzhen Airport to Shenzhen North Station • By subway: Take Line 11 from Airport Station to Qianhaiwan Station. From there, transfer to Line 5 (Huanzhong Line) and continue until you reach Shenzhen North Railway Station. This convenient subway route typically takes about one hour and costs approximately US$1.5. • By bus: Another option is to opt for the Airport Shuttle Bus A2, which operates directly from Shenzhen Airport to Shenzhen North Railway Station. This hassle-free bus service offers a direct journey between the two locations. From Shenzhen Railway Station to Shenzhen North Railway Station • By subway: Walk approximately 500 meters to Renminnan Station - Board Line 9 towards Yinhu Station - Transfer to Line 6 at Yinhu Station - Take Line 6 to Shenzhen North Station. This subway journey takes approximately 40 minutes and costs around US$1. • By bus: From the Yumincun Stop, board either bus 321 or 18 - Ride the bus and disembark at Jiabaoshekang Center Stop - Walk 400 meters to Luohu Tax Bureau - Board bus M207 at Luohu Tax Bureau - Get off at West Square of Shenzhen North Station Stop. This bus route takes around 2 hours and costs US$0.5. Detailded information about Shenzhen North Railway Station. Transportation to Futian Station Futian Station is centrally located in the city of Shenzhen. In addition to Shenzhen North, Futian Station is the other terminus of Shenzhen-Hong Kong high-speed railway and Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Express Rail Link. From Shenzhen International Airport to Futian Railway Station • By subway: Take Shenzhen Subway Line 11 from Shenzhen International Airport to Futian Station. From Shenzhen North Railway Station to Futian Railway Station • By subway: Take Shenzhen Subway Line 4 from Shenzhen North Station to Shaoniangong, then take Line 3 from Shaoniangong to Futian Station. It takes about 35 minutes and costs US$0.5. Other Ways of Traveling Between Shenzhen and Hong Kong Before the Shenzhen - Hong Kong high-speed railway opened, the main means of transportation between Hong Kong and Shenzhen are subway, taxi and bus. Between these two cities, there are nine border ports. Luohu Port, Huanggang Port and Futian Port are the most well-known and busiest. Shenzhen to Hong Kong By Subway Beside Shenzhen-Hong high-speed train, subway is the most cost-effective and straightforward way of transportation. Among the nine border ports, Luohu Port and Futian Port are connected with Hong Kong MTR. • Luohu Port: East Rail Line (MTR), directly connects Luohu Port to Mong Kok and Hung Hom Railway Station. • Futian Port: in Hong Kong, the metro station of Futian Port is called Lok Ma Chau, linking with MTR East Rail Line to downtown of Hong Kong. Shenzhen to Hong Kong by Bus At each port, numerous cross-border buses head from Shenzhen to Hong Kong and vice versa. They are operated by various companies. Bus routes cover important areas in Hong Kong including Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong Disneyland, Hong Kong International Airport, Mong Kok and Wan Chai, etc. FAQs on Hong Kong-Shenzhen High-Speed Trains How long does a high-speed train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen take? Presently, all high-speed trains complete the route from Hong Kong West Kowloon Station to Shenzhen Futian Station in just 14 minutes. Moreover, the most rapid trains cover the distance to Shenzhen North Station in a mere 18 minutes. Even the slowest train available ensures a relatively short ride, taking just 25 minutes to complete the journey. How much is the ticket fare for a train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? For the Hong Kong to Shenzhen route, the ticket prices remain consistent across all trains, given the relatively short distance. A Second Class ticket is priced at US$16, while a First Class seat costs US$16. For those seeking a more premium experience, a Business Class ticket is available at US$29. Is there a train from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Airport? Currently, there are no direct train services available from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. The suggested route from Hong Kong to the airport involves taking a train from Hong Kong West Kowloon station to Futian railway station in Shenzhen, followed by transferring to subway line 11 (heading towards Bitou) from Futian station to reach the airport. The train journey typically takes 14 minutes, while the subway commute requires approximately one hour Do I need a visa to travel from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? Yes, a Chinese visa is required to visit Shenzhen from Hong Kong. As Shenzhen is located on the mainland of China, regardless of whether you possess a Hong Kong visa, a Chinese visa is necessary to enter. When taking a high-speed train to Shenzhen from Hong Kong, your Chinese visa will be verified at the West Kowloon Station. How long does a high-speed train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen take? Presently, all high-speed trains complete the route from Hong Kong West Kowloon Station to Shenzhen Futian Station in just 14 minutes. Moreover, the most rapid trains cover the distance to Shenzhen North Station in a mere 18 minutes. Even the slowest train available ensures a relatively short ride, taking just 25 minutes to complete the journey. How long does a high-speed train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen take? Presently, all high-speed trains complete the route from Hong Kong West Kowloon Station to Shenzhen Futian Station in just 14 minutes. Moreover, the most rapid trains cover the distance to Shenzhen North Station in a mere 18 minutes. Even the slowest train available ensures a relatively short ride, taking just 25 minutes to complete the journey. How long does a high-speed train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen take? How long does a high-speed train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen take? Presently, all high-speed trains complete the route from Hong Kong West Kowloon Station to Shenzhen Futian Station in just 14 minutes. Moreover, the most rapid trains cover the distance to Shenzhen North Station in a mere 18 minutes. Even the slowest train available ensures a relatively short ride, taking just 25 minutes to complete the journey. Presently, all high-speed trains complete the route from Hong Kong West Kowloon Station to Shenzhen Futian Station in just 14 minutes. Moreover, the most rapid trains cover the distance to Shenzhen North Station in a mere 18 minutes. Even the slowest train available ensures a relatively short ride, taking just 25 minutes to complete the journey. Presently, all high-speed trains complete the route from Hong Kong West Kowloon Station to Shenzhen Futian Station in just 14 minutes. Moreover, the most rapid trains cover the distance to Shenzhen North Station in a mere 18 minutes. Even the slowest train available ensures a relatively short ride, taking just 25 minutes to complete the journey. Presently, all high-speed trains complete the route from Hong Kong West Kowloon Station to Shenzhen Futian Station in just 14 minutes. Moreover, the most rapid trains cover the distance to Shenzhen North Station in a mere 18 minutes. Even the slowest train available ensures a relatively short ride, taking just 25 minutes to complete the journey. How much is the ticket fare for a train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? For the Hong Kong to Shenzhen route, the ticket prices remain consistent across all trains, given the relatively short distance. A Second Class ticket is priced at US$16, while a First Class seat costs US$16. For those seeking a more premium experience, a Business Class ticket is available at US$29. How much is the ticket fare for a train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? For the Hong Kong to Shenzhen route, the ticket prices remain consistent across all trains, given the relatively short distance. A Second Class ticket is priced at US$16, while a First Class seat costs US$16. For those seeking a more premium experience, a Business Class ticket is available at US$29. How much is the ticket fare for a train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? How much is the ticket fare for a train journey from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? For the Hong Kong to Shenzhen route, the ticket prices remain consistent across all trains, given the relatively short distance. A Second Class ticket is priced at US$16, while a First Class seat costs US$16. For those seeking a more premium experience, a Business Class ticket is available at US$29. For the Hong Kong to Shenzhen route, the ticket prices remain consistent across all trains, given the relatively short distance. A Second Class ticket is priced at US$16, while a First Class seat costs US$16. For those seeking a more premium experience, a Business Class ticket is available at US$29. For the Hong Kong to Shenzhen route, the ticket prices remain consistent across all trains, given the relatively short distance. A Second Class ticket is priced at US$16, while a First Class seat costs US$16. For those seeking a more premium experience, a Business Class ticket is available at US$29. For the Hong Kong to Shenzhen route, the ticket prices remain consistent across all trains, given the relatively short distance. A Second Class ticket is priced at US$16, while a First Class seat costs US$16. For those seeking a more premium experience, a Business Class ticket is available at US$29. Is there a train from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Airport? Currently, there are no direct train services available from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. The suggested route from Hong Kong to the airport involves taking a train from Hong Kong West Kowloon station to Futian railway station in Shenzhen, followed by transferring to subway line 11 (heading towards Bitou) from Futian station to reach the airport. The train journey typically takes 14 minutes, while the subway commute requires approximately one hour Is there a train from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Airport? Currently, there are no direct train services available from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. The suggested route from Hong Kong to the airport involves taking a train from Hong Kong West Kowloon station to Futian railway station in Shenzhen, followed by transferring to subway line 11 (heading towards Bitou) from Futian station to reach the airport. The train journey typically takes 14 minutes, while the subway commute requires approximately one hour Is there a train from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Airport? Is there a train from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Airport? Currently, there are no direct train services available from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. The suggested route from Hong Kong to the airport involves taking a train from Hong Kong West Kowloon station to Futian railway station in Shenzhen, followed by transferring to subway line 11 (heading towards Bitou) from Futian station to reach the airport. The train journey typically takes 14 minutes, while the subway commute requires approximately one hour Currently, there are no direct train services available from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. The suggested route from Hong Kong to the airport involves taking a train from Hong Kong West Kowloon station to Futian railway station in Shenzhen, followed by transferring to subway line 11 (heading towards Bitou) from Futian station to reach the airport. The train journey typically takes 14 minutes, while the subway commute requires approximately one hour Currently, there are no direct train services available from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. The suggested route from Hong Kong to the airport involves taking a train from Hong Kong West Kowloon station to Futian railway station in Shenzhen, followed by transferring to subway line 11 (heading towards Bitou) from Futian station to reach the airport. The train journey typically takes 14 minutes, while the subway commute requires approximately one hour Currently, there are no direct train services available from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. The suggested route from Hong Kong to the airport involves taking a train from Hong Kong West Kowloon station to Futian railway station in Shenzhen, followed by transferring to subway line 11 (heading towards Bitou) from Futian station to reach the airport. The train journey typically takes 14 minutes, while the subway commute requires approximately one hour Do I need a visa to travel from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? Yes, a Chinese visa is required to visit Shenzhen from Hong Kong. As Shenzhen is located on the mainland of China, regardless of whether you possess a Hong Kong visa, a Chinese visa is necessary to enter. When taking a high-speed train to Shenzhen from Hong Kong, your Chinese visa will be verified at the West Kowloon Station. Do I need a visa to travel from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? Yes, a Chinese visa is required to visit Shenzhen from Hong Kong. As Shenzhen is located on the mainland of China, regardless of whether you possess a Hong Kong visa, a Chinese visa is necessary to enter. When taking a high-speed train to Shenzhen from Hong Kong, your Chinese visa will be verified at the West Kowloon Station. Do I need a visa to travel from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? Do I need a visa to travel from Hong Kong to Shenzhen? Yes, a Chinese visa is required to visit Shenzhen from Hong Kong. As Shenzhen is located on the mainland of China, regardless of whether you possess a Hong Kong visa, a Chinese visa is necessary to enter. When taking a high-speed train to Shenzhen from Hong Kong, your Chinese visa will be verified at the West Kowloon Station. Yes, a Chinese visa is required to visit Shenzhen from Hong Kong. As Shenzhen is located on the mainland of China, regardless of whether you possess a Hong Kong visa, a Chinese visa is necessary to enter. When taking a high-speed train to Shenzhen from Hong Kong, your Chinese visa will be verified at the West Kowloon Station. Yes, a Chinese visa is required to visit Shenzhen from Hong Kong. As Shenzhen is located on the mainland of China, regardless of whether you possess a Hong Kong visa, a Chinese visa is necessary to enter. When taking a high-speed train to Shenzhen from Hong Kong, your Chinese visa will be verified at the West Kowloon Station. Yes, a Chinese visa is required to visit Shenzhen from Hong Kong. As Shenzhen is located on the mainland of China, regardless of whether you possess a Hong Kong visa, a Chinese visa is necessary to enter. When taking a high-speed train to Shenzhen from Hong Kong, your Chinese visa will be verified at the West Kowloon Station. • Hong Kong-Guilin Bullet Trains • Hong Kong-Guiyang High-Speed Trains • Hong Kong-Xiamen High-Speed Trains • Hong Kong-Changsha High-Speed Trains