ID: 5c6f9a2b2fd00894
Title: China Winter Tours 2025/2026: Snow Entertainment, Warm Winter-Escape
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tour/winter-vacation/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

When you think of winter in China, the Harbin Ice Festival might be the first thing that pops into your mind. Indeed, the festival (from late December to February) is China's most iconic winter event. But exploring China in winter offers so much more. Here are three main categories to consider: Ice Festivals, Snow Entertainment, and Skiing: Dive into the wonders of Harbin and the northeastern regions like Changbai Mountain and Mohe. Enjoying Winter Sunshine: Discover the warmth of highland areas such as Yunnan and Tibet, or bask in the mild climates of southeastern coastal regions like Guangzhou, Chaoshan, and Xiamen. Chilly but Stunning Landscapes: Experience breathtaking snow-covered sights at iconic attractions like the Great Wall, Huangshan, Zhangjiajie, Jiuzhaigou, and Emei Mountain. Inner Mongolia is also a great destination for enjoying snowy landscapes. Our curated China winter tours are crafted to make your winter getaway unforgettable. Share your interests with us, and our expert travel advisors will tailor the perfect holiday just for you. When you think of winter in China, the Harbin Ice Festival might be the first thing that pops into your mind. Indeed, the festival (from late December to February) is China's most iconic winter event. But exploring China in winter offers so much more. Here are three main categories to consider: • Ice Festivals, Snow Entertainment, and Skiing: Dive into the wonders of Harbin and the northeastern regions like Changbai Mountain and Mohe. • Enjoying Winter Sunshine: Discover the warmth of highland areas such as Yunnan and Tibet, or bask in the mild climates of southeastern coastal regions like Guangzhou, Chaoshan, and Xiamen. • Chilly but Stunning Landscapes: Experience breathtaking snow-covered sights at iconic attractions like the Great Wall, Huangshan, Zhangjiajie, Jiuzhaigou, and Emei Mountain. Inner Mongolia is also a great destination for enjoying snowy landscapes. Our curated China winter tours are crafted to make your winter getaway unforgettable. Share your interests with us, and our expert travel advisors will tailor the perfect holiday just for you. Harbin Ice Festival Tour Warm Winter Tours Winter Scenery Tours Travel Guides & Inspirations Harbin Ice and Snow Festival Tours Check out our suggested winter tours including Harbin Ice and Snow Festival and attractive destinations near Harbin. We are happy to tailor-make any of them to create your fairytale winter tour. 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour Harbin, Snow Valley, Snow Town View More 7-Day Winter Fairyland from Harbin to Mt. Changbai Tour Harbin, Snow Town, Dunhua, Erdaobaihe, Changbai Mountain View More 8-Day China Family Winter Tour Beijing, Harbin View More 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour Harbin, Yabuli, Snow Town View More Harbin Ice and Snow Festival Tours Check out our suggested winter tours including Harbin Ice and Snow Festival and attractive destinations near Harbin. We are happy to tailor-make any of them to create your fairytale winter tour. 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour Harbin, Snow Valley, Snow Town View More 7-Day Winter Fairyland from Harbin to Mt. Changbai Tour Harbin, Snow Town, Dunhua, Erdaobaihe, Changbai Mountain View More 8-Day China Family Winter Tour Beijing, Harbin View More 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour Harbin, Yabuli, Snow Town View More 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour Harbin, Snow Valley, Snow Town View More 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour Harbin, Snow Valley, Snow Town View More Harbin, Snow Valley, Snow Town 7-Day Winter Fairyland from Harbin to Mt. Changbai Tour Harbin, Snow Town, Dunhua, Erdaobaihe, Changbai Mountain View More 7-Day Winter Fairyland from Harbin to Mt. Changbai Tour Harbin, Snow Town, Dunhua, Erdaobaihe, Changbai Mountain View More Harbin, Snow Town, Dunhua, Erdaobaihe, Changbai Mountain 8-Day China Family Winter Tour Beijing, Harbin View More 8-Day China Family Winter Tour Beijing, Harbin View More 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour Harbin, Yabuli, Snow Town View More 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour Harbin, Yabuli, Snow Town View More Harbin, Yabuli, Snow Town Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Warm Winter-Escape Tours Just tell us what would interest you for a winter escape. We will customize a trip according to your schedule and interests. 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang View More 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou View More 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More Warm Winter-Escape Tours Just tell us what would interest you for a winter escape. We will customize a trip according to your schedule and interests. 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang View More 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou View More 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang View More 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang View More Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou View More 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou View More Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang View More 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang View More Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome Winter Scenery Tours Some scenery belongs to winter alone. Sometimes beauty appears when most people leave. Come with us to appreciate stunning wintry views. The recommended tours below will motivate those of you who love the unique landscapes of winter to pack for a winter break. The Best of Hunan 7-Day Zhangjiajie, Fenghuang, and Changsha Tour View More 7-Day Huangshan, Shanghai, and Hangzhou Tour View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour View More 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience View More More China Tours Some scenery belongs to winter alone. Sometimes beauty appears when most people leave. Come with us to appreciate stunning wintry views. The recommended tours below will motivate those of you who love the unique landscapes of winter to pack for a winter break. The Best of Hunan 7-Day Zhangjiajie, Fenghuang, and Changsha Tour View More 7-Day Huangshan, Shanghai, and Hangzhou Tour View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour View More 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience View More The Best of Hunan 7-Day Zhangjiajie, Fenghuang, and Changsha Tour View More 7-Day Zhangjiajie, Fenghuang, and Changsha Tour View More 7-Day Huangshan, Shanghai, and Hangzhou Tour View More 7-Day Huangshan, Shanghai, and Hangzhou Tour View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour View More 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience View More 6-Day Hulunbuir Winter Tour with Reindeer Experience View More China Winter Travel Guides & Inspirations Save these guides and request your private itinerary now. Harbin Ice Festival 2025-2026 (A Full Guide) View More Top 10 Destinations for Winter Tours in China View More Longqing Gorge Ice and Snow Festival in Beijing View More Top 12 China Ski Resorts: Family, Intermediate or Advanced skiers View More China Winter Travel Guides & Inspirations Save these guides and request your private itinerary now. Harbin Ice Festival 2025-2026 (A Full Guide) View More Top 10 Destinations for Winter Tours in China View More Longqing Gorge Ice and Snow Festival in Beijing View More Top 12 China Ski Resorts: Family, Intermediate or Advanced skiers View More Harbin Ice Festival 2025-2026 (A Full Guide) View More Harbin Ice Festival 2025-2026 (A Full Guide) View More Top 10 Destinations for Winter Tours in China View More Top 10 Destinations for Winter Tours in China View More Longqing Gorge Ice and Snow Festival in Beijing View More Longqing Gorge Ice and Snow Festival in Beijing View More Top 12 China Ski Resorts: Family, Intermediate or Advanced skiers View More Top 12 China Ski Resorts: Family, Intermediate or Advanced skiers View More Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Star Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Star Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Star Planning Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice