ID: 47a1281d1ede2827
Title: Top 7 Guilin Mountains to Enjoy Karst Scenery
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/guilin/top-karst-mountain.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-07-30T00:00:00
================================================================================

Guilin is famous for its karst landscape and limestone caves. Unlike grand mountain ranges, Guilin's karst mountains are generally shorter and endless, with varied shapes. With limited travel time, which mountain is the most representative one to visit? Here, we have recommended the top karst mountains in Guilin. Read below for detailed information. Recommendation Ranking ★★★★★: Most recommended. A must-see attraction for your Guilin trip. ★★★★: Worth a visit. However, if you have a tight itinerary, save this for your next trip. ★★★: Not necessarily needed. You can view this from a distance if you pass by. • 1. Elephant Trunk Hill • 2. Nine Horse Fresco Hill • 3. Xianggong Mountain • 4. Folded Brocade Hill • 5. Moon Hill • 6. Fubo Hill • 7. Solitary Beauty Peak • Best Time to Visit Guilin Karst Hills 1. Elephant Trunk Hill (象鼻山 Xiangbi Shan) • Recommendation: ★★★★★ • Location: Within Xiangbishan Park, Xiangshan District (about a 10-minute drive from downtown Guilin) • Approximately costs: Free admission Elephant Trunk Hill is the symbol of Guilin. It looks like a giant elephant stretching its trunk and drinking water from the Li River. The arch of the "elephant's trunk" was carved by water erosion, called Water Moon Cave, which is named after its inverted reflection in the water, forming the shape of the moon. It is best to visit Elephant Trunk Hill in the early morning, when the crowd is thinner, and you could climb up the hill together with exercising locals, then enjoy a panoramic view of the Li River as your reward. Generally, it would only take about 10–15 minutes to reach the top. For a simple tick off, you could just stand in the distance to take some check-in photos. In our 3-day Guilin and Yangshuo tour, we would show you around Elephant Trunk Hill and Reed Flute Cave. Not only will our professional guide introduce the scenes and attractions, but they will also show you the best photo angle and tricks to avoid the crowds. Contact us now to start your journey! 2. Nine Horse Fresco Hill (九马画山 Jiumahua Shan) • Recommendation: ★★★★★ • Location: About 60 kilometers from Guilin • Approximately costs: Vary based on the cruise you boarded Nine Horse Fresco Hill Nine Horses Fresco Hill, which is also known as Guilin Mural Hill, stands on the most scenic part of the Li River. Taking a Li River cruise is a rather cozy way to appreciate the hill, especially if you are travelling with seniors or children. No need to climb up to the peak, the best view of Nine Horses Fresco Hill is from a distance to admire its full shape. The hill's cliff looks like a huge canvas, and the pattern on the rock face describes a picture of nine horses by nature. Here comes the interesting part: only a few could find all nine horses. Legend has it that the smarter a person is, the more horses one can find. Ready to take up the challenge now? If your adventure in Guilin is quite tight, check out this 1-Day Li River Cruise and Yangshuo Highlights Tour. This itinerary contains the essence of Guilin's karst landscape, including the Nine Horses Fresco Hill and other must-sees, letting you enjoy your hard-earned vacation at a leisurely pace. 3. 'Lord Hill' (相公山 Xianggong Shan) • Recommendation: ★★★★★ • Location: About 57 kilometers from downtown Guilin and 28 kilometers from Yangshuo • Approximately costs: 9 USD/pp When you take a Li River cruise from Guilin to Yangshuo, Xianggong Mountain will appear on your right side. It is one of the best places to spot the panoramic view of the Li River and karst landform, with about half an hour of climbing to the observation deck. The steps leading up the mountain are not too steep, even children can complete the climb, but it is not recommended for elderly people with mobility problems. For shutterbugs, sunrise and sunset are the best times to create masterpieces. Rosy and glowing clouds, the looming sun, the tranquil river, and hazy karst hills in the background could be awe-inspiring. However, if your schedule is tight, there's no need to push yourself to see the sunrise or sunset, since the scenery is stunning at all times. What's more, you could avoid the crowds and enjoy a more exclusive viewing experience. Thinking about planning a photography tour to Guilin? We have crafted a 6-Day Guilin Photography Tour that would lead you to discover shooting spots and freeze beautiful moments, including Xianggong Mountain and other famous attractions. It needs to be noted that weather conditions may affect your photography experience, but different experiences also have different scenery during the journey. We will do our best to meet your needs, and the perfect trip is always just around the corner. 4. Folded Brocade Hill (叠彩山 Diecai Shan) • Recommendation: ★★★★ • Location: Northeast of downtown Guilin (about a 10-minute drive from downtown Guilin) • Approximately costs: 4 USD/pp Sunrise over Folded Brocade Hill, Guilin Folded Brocade Hill got its name from its horizontal lines of the rocks overlapping each other, which are colorful like a folded silk brocade. If you want to see the panoramic view of Guilin City, climb up to the peak on a clear day. You could see Guilin City among the hills with the mother river running across, and time seems to slow down here. It might make you sweat a bit after an hour of climbing, but you would not regret the effort. Along the way, you could take a break at the Windy Cave to feel the fresh and cool wind in an even manner. If it's difficult for you to reach the top, we suggest climbing to Wangjiang Pavilion on the mountainside for about 30 minutes. The scenery you see there is similar to that at the top, and even more beautiful. Though Folded Brocade Hill has a great view of the Li River and Guilin City, it is often crowded with local citizens on weekends and holidays. In this case, we recommend taking a night cruise of the Two Rivers and Four Lakes for about an hour, admiring the stunning night views and famed attractions of Guilin, including Folded Brocade Hill at night. 5. Moon Hill (月亮山 Yueliang Shan) • Recommendation: ★★★★ • Location: Gaotian Village in Yangshuo County (about a 1-hour drive from Yangshuo) • Approximately costs: 4 USD/pp Moon Hill features a large, round, and pierced cave. It is best to view it from a distance, which looks just like the moon. If you pass by the Moon Hill in a moving car, you will see the "moon" slowly change in turn from a crescent to a half-moon, to a full moon, and finally a crescent again. For a closer look, you can climb 800 steps from the foot to the moon cave, which takes around an hour, and it is a little steep. The upper scenery is plain for Guilin, but the cave is the highlight. The moon cave is natural, with 50 meters in height and being very broad, where you could enjoy a cool draught and relax your mind and body. This 3-day Guilin and Yangshuo tour would not only offer a Li River Cruise from Guilin to Yangshuo, but would also lead you on an exploration of the Yangshuo countryside by cycling, electric scooter, or car, depending on your preference. We suggest cycling around to get a closer look at the rice paddies, breathe in fresh air, and marvel at villages and fields set among karst hills. 6. Fubo Hill (伏波山 Fubo Shan) • Recommendation: ★★★★ • Location: Northeast of downtown Guilin (about a 10-minute drive from downtown Guilin) • Approximately costs: 4 USD/pp Fubo Hill is an isolated peak standing on the bank of the Li River, named after General Fubo, who marched there about 2,000 years ago. You would need an hour climbing up the steps to reach the top for a great view. Alike Folded Brocade Hill, Fubo Hill also has pavilions for rest and to admire the scenery. But what makes it truly famous is its historical inscription tablets and stone Buddha statues, telling stories and history silently. For historical enthusiasts and Buddhists, you could tell that Buddhism has a profound influence on Fubo Hill. Not only are many scenic spots named after Buddhism, but the legend that the surging water of the Li River subsides here every year is also related to Buddhist culture. Like the Folded Brocade Hill, Fubo Hill can be easily observed from a distance if you take a night cruise of the Two Rivers and Four Lakes. Enjoy the cool night breeze and lively scenery lit by colorful lights. 7. Solitary Beauty Peak (独秀峰 Duxiu Feng) • Recommendation: ★★★ • Location: Within the Jingjiang Wangcheng City, downtown Guilin • Approximately costs: 15 USD/pp The Solitary Beauty Peak stands out in downtown Guilin and is known as "the column in the southern sky". It shows its best at dawn or dusk, when the gentle light makes it look like dressing in a purple robe decorated with golden thread. To admire the panoramic view of downtown Guilin, you will need a half-hour climb to reach the peak. This site is less visited by locals due to the admission fees, so unless you encounter a large tour group, you don't have to worry about crowds in most cases. If you are interested in Guilin's history and culture, it also preserves some historical relics and stone inscriptions, waiting to tell you more about their stories through your guide. Since the Solitary Beauty Peak is located in the Jingjiang Wangcheng City, you will need to pay the admission fee, and the view is quite alike where you could see at Folded Brocade Hill or Fubo Hill. Appreciate its beauty from a distance for free, then straight explore East West Street for local snacks and dishes would be more recommended. Best Time to Visit Guilin Karst Hills If you are not a climber, Guilin's karst hills are suitable for all year round, but offer different scenery and activities in each season. To visit them on foot, Autumn from September to November should be your best choice, when the weather is clear and cool. There are more rainy days in spring and summer. Rivers are in flood season, and misty days with frequent rainfalls make up the traditional Chinese ink painting scenery, which is best for admiring the landscape from a distance. Winter is typically considered the worst time to visit, since the days are relatively cold with stronger winds, and the mountains and rivers are bleak with withered vegetation. Look for the bright side, this is the low season to visit, which is best for budget travelers and indoor activities. For more detailed weather information, check out Best Times to Visit Guilin. Traveling to Guilin with Us Still have no clue about planning a Guilin tour? Looking for a longer itinerary? Let us lend you a hand. Our tours are designed based on well over decades of experience and feedback from our clients. Feel free to customize the sample tour to your requirements, and we will do our best to meet your needs. Reach out to us now to start your journey. • 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery • 5-Day Dynamic Guilin and Yangshuo Tour • 7-Day Longji Rice Terraces, Li River, and Yulong River Hiking Tour