ID: 4405f45c41dc323c
Title: 3-Hour Former French Concession Walking Discovery Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/shanghai/3-hour-french-concession-walking-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Shanghai is popular for many places and reasons, but the Former French Concession(FFC) is top place to visit. Hugely popular and sought after as the preferred residential address among expats, it has a lot of history and beauty to its credit. Due to the FFC being as vast as it is (about 8 km wide, stretching west of the Bund), this 3-hour walking tour will show you the highlights to explore in your short time in Shanghai. You can't miss the huge variety of hip cafes and restaurants, concept bars and breweries, art galleries, etc in FFC. Join our walking tour to explore Shanghai's colonial legacy, learn the history of Shanghai's colonial past, have a cup of coffee to feel the slow life in Shanghai! Tour Highlights Walk through gorgeous tree-lined avenues to visit the highlights of the French Concession. Led by a local English-speaking guide, who has rich knowledge of Shanghai. Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee to experience a leisure life in Shanghai. Have a chance to learn about Shanghai's colonial history of old China. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's walking tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We meet at the Twelve at Hengshan Hotel (Add: No.12 Hengshan Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai) at 9:00 AM and head to the Former French Concession. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (Guide information will be sent to you the day before the departure day) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Twelve at Hengshan Hotel Gate Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? 1. You can take subway line 1 to Hengshan Road station, Exit No.3 and 2-minute walk to the hotel. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到上海衡山路十二号酒店” Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:00 - 11:30 AMVisit the Former French Concession Walking along the Wukang Road which stretches 1.17 kilometers long. Originally built in 1907, the road is the representative of the typical garden style residential complex in the French Concession. On both sides of the road are plane trees and many European-style buildings built in the early 20th century, once inhabited by many celebrities. Wukang Road A small delicate shop The first stop is at Wukang Mansion. It was formerly known as the Normandie Apartments, is the landmark of Wukang Road. It boasts the first veranda style architecture in Shanghai. Built in 1927, it is shaped like a giant ship. Wukang Mansion Details about the mansion Next, goes to the Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence in Huaihai Road. It was built in 1920 and became Soong's house in Shanghai in 1948. Soong Ching Ling was the former vice chairman of the People's Republic of China. She devoted her whole life to defending the republic system and the birth of a new China. Walking into the house, you will find everything displayed as if they were still living there. Gate of Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence Soong Ching Ling statue in the residence At Sinan Road, there are many garden houses used to be residences for celebrities, like Former Chinese premier Zhou Enlai, Chinese Peking opera artist Mei Langfang and Chinese modern democratic revolutionaries Sun Yat-sen. We also go to the Old House Art Center to learn the meaning and history of those old houses. Old house on the road Old house model Old house model Finally, Propaganda Poster Art Center is the last spot we go. The museum has a collection of over 6,000 Chinese propaganda posters from 1940 to 1990, that is a special window into a different side of Chinese culture. Commemorative Chinese old-time banknote Chinese propaganda art work 11:30 – 12:00PMEnjoy a Cup of Coffee After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this walking tour ends with a cup of coffee in a special cafe. Coffee shop Have a great break time Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Price Include: A cup of coffee. Passionate English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Shanghai is popular for many places and reasons, but the Former French Concession(FFC) is top place to visit. Hugely popular and sought after as the preferred residential address among expats, it has a lot of history and beauty to its credit. Due to the FFC being as vast as it is (about 8 km wide, stretching west of the Bund), this 3-hour walking tour will show you the highlights to explore in your short time in Shanghai. You can't miss the huge variety of hip cafes and restaurants, concept bars and breweries, art galleries, etc in FFC. Join our walking tour to explore Shanghai's colonial legacy, learn the history of Shanghai's colonial past, have a cup of coffee to feel the slow life in Shanghai! Shanghai is popular for many places and reasons, but the Former French Concession(FFC) is top place to visit. Hugely popular and sought after as the preferred residential address among expats, it has a lot of history and beauty to its credit. Due to the FFC being as vast as it is (about 8 km wide, stretching west of the Bund), this 3-hour walking tour will show you the highlights to explore in your short time in Shanghai. You can't miss the huge variety of hip cafes and restaurants, concept bars and breweries, art galleries, etc in FFC. Join our walking tour to explore Shanghai's colonial legacy, learn the history of Shanghai's colonial past, have a cup of coffee to feel the slow life in Shanghai! Tour Highlights Walk through gorgeous tree-lined avenues to visit the highlights of the French Concession. Led by a local English-speaking guide, who has rich knowledge of Shanghai. Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee to experience a leisure life in Shanghai. Have a chance to learn about Shanghai's colonial history of old China. • Walk through gorgeous tree-lined avenues to visit the highlights of the French Concession. • Led by a local English-speaking guide, who has rich knowledge of Shanghai. • Enjoy a cup of fragrant coffee to experience a leisure life in Shanghai. • Have a chance to learn about Shanghai's colonial history of old China. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's walking tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We meet at the Twelve at Hengshan Hotel (Add: No.12 Hengshan Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai) at 9:00 AM and head to the Former French Concession. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (Guide information will be sent to you the day before the departure day) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Twelve at Hengshan Hotel Gate Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? 1. You can take subway line 1 to Hengshan Road station, Exit No.3 and 2-minute walk to the hotel. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到上海衡山路十二号酒店” Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:00 - 11:30 AMVisit the Former French Concession Walking along the Wukang Road which stretches 1.17 kilometers long. Originally built in 1907, the road is the representative of the typical garden style residential complex in the French Concession. On both sides of the road are plane trees and many European-style buildings built in the early 20th century, once inhabited by many celebrities. Wukang Road A small delicate shop The first stop is at Wukang Mansion. It was formerly known as the Normandie Apartments, is the landmark of Wukang Road. It boasts the first veranda style architecture in Shanghai. Built in 1927, it is shaped like a giant ship. Wukang Mansion Details about the mansion Next, goes to the Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence in Huaihai Road. It was built in 1920 and became Soong's house in Shanghai in 1948. Soong Ching Ling was the former vice chairman of the People's Republic of China. She devoted her whole life to defending the republic system and the birth of a new China. Walking into the house, you will find everything displayed as if they were still living there. Gate of Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence Soong Ching Ling statue in the residence At Sinan Road, there are many garden houses used to be residences for celebrities, like Former Chinese premier Zhou Enlai, Chinese Peking opera artist Mei Langfang and Chinese modern democratic revolutionaries Sun Yat-sen. We also go to the Old House Art Center to learn the meaning and history of those old houses. Old house on the road Old house model Old house model Finally, Propaganda Poster Art Center is the last spot we go. The museum has a collection of over 6,000 Chinese propaganda posters from 1940 to 1990, that is a special window into a different side of Chinese culture. Commemorative Chinese old-time banknote Chinese propaganda art work 11:30 – 12:00PMEnjoy a Cup of Coffee After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this walking tour ends with a cup of coffee in a special cafe. Coffee shop Have a great break time Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's walking tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We meet at the Twelve at Hengshan Hotel (Add: No.12 Hengshan Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai) at 9:00 AM and head to the Former French Concession. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (Guide information will be sent to you the day before the departure day) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Twelve at Hengshan Hotel Gate Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? 1. You can take subway line 1 to Hengshan Road station, Exit No.3 and 2-minute walk to the hotel. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到上海衡山路十二号酒店” Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:00 - 11:30 AMVisit the Former French Concession Walking along the Wukang Road which stretches 1.17 kilometers long. Originally built in 1907, the road is the representative of the typical garden style residential complex in the French Concession. On both sides of the road are plane trees and many European-style buildings built in the early 20th century, once inhabited by many celebrities. Wukang Road A small delicate shop The first stop is at Wukang Mansion. It was formerly known as the Normandie Apartments, is the landmark of Wukang Road. It boasts the first veranda style architecture in Shanghai. Built in 1927, it is shaped like a giant ship. Wukang Mansion Details about the mansion Next, goes to the Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence in Huaihai Road. It was built in 1920 and became Soong's house in Shanghai in 1948. Soong Ching Ling was the former vice chairman of the People's Republic of China. She devoted her whole life to defending the republic system and the birth of a new China. Walking into the house, you will find everything displayed as if they were still living there. Gate of Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence Soong Ching Ling statue in the residence At Sinan Road, there are many garden houses used to be residences for celebrities, like Former Chinese premier Zhou Enlai, Chinese Peking opera artist Mei Langfang and Chinese modern democratic revolutionaries Sun Yat-sen. We also go to the Old House Art Center to learn the meaning and history of those old houses. Old house on the road Old house model Old house model Finally, Propaganda Poster Art Center is the last spot we go. The museum has a collection of over 6,000 Chinese propaganda posters from 1940 to 1990, that is a special window into a different side of Chinese culture. Commemorative Chinese old-time banknote Chinese propaganda art work 11:30 – 12:00PMEnjoy a Cup of Coffee After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this walking tour ends with a cup of coffee in a special cafe. Coffee shop Have a great break time Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's walking tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's walking tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's walking tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We meet at the Twelve at Hengshan Hotel (Add: No.12 Hengshan Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai) at 9:00 AM and head to the Former French Concession. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (Guide information will be sent to you the day before the departure day) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Twelve at Hengshan Hotel Gate Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? 1. You can take subway line 1 to Hengshan Road station, Exit No.3 and 2-minute walk to the hotel. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到上海衡山路十二号酒店” Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We meet at the Twelve at Hengshan Hotel (Add: No.12 Hengshan Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai) at 9:00 AM and head to the Former French Concession. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (Guide information will be sent to you the day before the departure day) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Twelve at Hengshan Hotel Gate Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point? 1. You can take subway line 1 to Hengshan Road station, Exit No.3 and 2-minute walk to the hotel. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到上海衡山路十二号酒店” Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. We meet at the Twelve at Hengshan Hotel (Add: No.12 Hengshan Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai) at 9:00 AM and head to the Former French Concession. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (Guide information will be sent to you the day before the departure day) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Twelve at Hengshan Hotel Gate • How to get to the meeting point? • 1. You can take subway line 1 to Hengshan Road station, Exit No.3 and 2-minute walk to the hotel. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. • 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到上海衡山路十二号酒店” • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:00 - 11:30 AMVisit the Former French Concession Walking along the Wukang Road which stretches 1.17 kilometers long. Originally built in 1907, the road is the representative of the typical garden style residential complex in the French Concession. On both sides of the road are plane trees and many European-style buildings built in the early 20th century, once inhabited by many celebrities. Wukang Road A small delicate shop The first stop is at Wukang Mansion. It was formerly known as the Normandie Apartments, is the landmark of Wukang Road. It boasts the first veranda style architecture in Shanghai. Built in 1927, it is shaped like a giant ship. Wukang Mansion Details about the mansion Next, goes to the Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence in Huaihai Road. It was built in 1920 and became Soong's house in Shanghai in 1948. Soong Ching Ling was the former vice chairman of the People's Republic of China. She devoted her whole life to defending the republic system and the birth of a new China. Walking into the house, you will find everything displayed as if they were still living there. Gate of Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence Soong Ching Ling statue in the residence At Sinan Road, there are many garden houses used to be residences for celebrities, like Former Chinese premier Zhou Enlai, Chinese Peking opera artist Mei Langfang and Chinese modern democratic revolutionaries Sun Yat-sen. We also go to the Old House Art Center to learn the meaning and history of those old houses. Old house on the road Old house model Old house model Finally, Propaganda Poster Art Center is the last spot we go. The museum has a collection of over 6,000 Chinese propaganda posters from 1940 to 1990, that is a special window into a different side of Chinese culture. Commemorative Chinese old-time banknote Chinese propaganda art work 9:00 - 11:30 AMVisit the Former French Concession Walking along the Wukang Road which stretches 1.17 kilometers long. Originally built in 1907, the road is the representative of the typical garden style residential complex in the French Concession. On both sides of the road are plane trees and many European-style buildings built in the early 20th century, once inhabited by many celebrities. Wukang Road A small delicate shop The first stop is at Wukang Mansion. It was formerly known as the Normandie Apartments, is the landmark of Wukang Road. It boasts the first veranda style architecture in Shanghai. Built in 1927, it is shaped like a giant ship. Wukang Mansion Details about the mansion Next, goes to the Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence in Huaihai Road. It was built in 1920 and became Soong's house in Shanghai in 1948. Soong Ching Ling was the former vice chairman of the People's Republic of China. She devoted her whole life to defending the republic system and the birth of a new China. Walking into the house, you will find everything displayed as if they were still living there. Gate of Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence Soong Ching Ling statue in the residence At Sinan Road, there are many garden houses used to be residences for celebrities, like Former Chinese premier Zhou Enlai, Chinese Peking opera artist Mei Langfang and Chinese modern democratic revolutionaries Sun Yat-sen. We also go to the Old House Art Center to learn the meaning and history of those old houses. Old house on the road Old house model Old house model Finally, Propaganda Poster Art Center is the last spot we go. The museum has a collection of over 6,000 Chinese propaganda posters from 1940 to 1990, that is a special window into a different side of Chinese culture. Commemorative Chinese old-time banknote Chinese propaganda art work Walking along the Wukang Road which stretches 1.17 kilometers long. Originally built in 1907, the road is the representative of the typical garden style residential complex in the French Concession. On both sides of the road are plane trees and many European-style buildings built in the early 20th century, once inhabited by many celebrities. A small delicate shop The first stop is at Wukang Mansion. It was formerly known as the Normandie Apartments, is the landmark of Wukang Road. It boasts the first veranda style architecture in Shanghai. Built in 1927, it is shaped like a giant ship. Details about the mansion Next, goes to the Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence in Huaihai Road. It was built in 1920 and became Soong's house in Shanghai in 1948. Soong Ching Ling was the former vice chairman of the People's Republic of China. She devoted her whole life to defending the republic system and the birth of a new China. Walking into the house, you will find everything displayed as if they were still living there. Gate of Soong Ching Ling Memorial Residence Soong Ching Ling statue in the residence At Sinan Road, there are many garden houses used to be residences for celebrities, like Former Chinese premier Zhou Enlai, Chinese Peking opera artist Mei Langfang and Chinese modern democratic revolutionaries Sun Yat-sen. We also go to the Old House Art Center to learn the meaning and history of those old houses. Old house on the road Finally, Propaganda Poster Art Center is the last spot we go. The museum has a collection of over 6,000 Chinese propaganda posters from 1940 to 1990, that is a special window into a different side of Chinese culture. Commemorative Chinese old-time banknote Chinese propaganda art work 11:30 – 12:00PMEnjoy a Cup of Coffee After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this walking tour ends with a cup of coffee in a special cafe. Coffee shop Have a great break time Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook 11:30 – 12:00PMEnjoy a Cup of Coffee After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this walking tour ends with a cup of coffee in a special cafe. Coffee shop Have a great break time Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this walking tour ends with a cup of coffee in a special cafe. Have a great break time Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Price Include: A cup of coffee. Passionate English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. Price Include: A cup of coffee. Passionate English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. Price Include: A cup of coffee. Passionate English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. • A cup of coffee. • Passionate English-speaking local guide. • Hotel pickup and drop-off services. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 67 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 67 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 67 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20