ID: 3c1e40c34af0e5c1
Title: The Top 10 Places to Visit in China in May 2026
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/article-may-trip.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

May is the end of China's spring, which is full of vitality. Many natural scenic areas are transformed by oceans of flowers and mountains are covered with exuberant trees and plants. May is neither too hot nor too cold, making it an ideal season to travel around China. We have listed the best 10 places to visit in May: 1) Shangri-La, 2) Tibet, 3) Guilin, 4) Chengdu, 5) Zhongwei, 6) Yangtze River Cruise, 7) the Silk Road, 8) Zhangjiajie, 9) Chaozhou, and 10) Jingdezhen. 1. Shangri-La — a Colorful Palette to Feast the Eyes Located at the border between Yunnan Province and Tibet, the fabulous natural scenery in Shangri-La makes you think of heaven. Shangri-La in spring is light green and in summer it's awash with color. Snowy mountains, dense forests, green grasslands and pastoral villages make it a peaceful and tranquil place. In addition to its amazing natural scenery, its ethnic culture is a major reason to visit Shangri-La. The main ethnic group there is the Tibetans, who still maintain their traditional lifestyle and culture. • Experience a Tibetan ceremony of blessing behind Songzanlin Monastery, which is not seen by ordinary tourists. • Visit a non-public dormitory of Songzanlin Monastery. • Stay in a tent on a mountain pasture where local Tibetan people live and learn about their lifestyle. If you look for a place to escape crowds in Yunnan during Labor Day, we recommend a Baoshan Stone Village's hiking in Lijiang — a good place to get close to nature and feel the vitality of spring. Houses in the village are all made of natural stones by its Naxi inhabitants. May is its most beautiful season. If you are interested in it, contact us. 2. Tibet — Untainted Land and Mysterious Culture Tibet is a place of mystery, tranquility, and rich national heritage. It's a place for slowing down and soaking up the natural charm all around. The breathtaking beauty of nature in Tibet will capture your imagination. Yamdrok Lake glows turquoise when the sun is shining. Tibet is overflowing with characteristic Tibetan landmarks, vast Tibetan plateau, herds of cattle and sheep, blue skies, clear water, and fresh air. • Visit Jokhang Temple, the most holy temple for Tibetan Buddhists, where a lot of devoted pilgrims prostrate themselves near the front gate. • Explore Ani Tsankhung Nunnery, a quiet but active convent where females study Buddhism. • Take photos with a yak or Tibetan mastiff by the Yamdrok lakeside. • 8-Day Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome Spring Tour — When Spring's Pink Blends with Mysterious Tibet • 4-Day Lhasa Highlights Comfort Tour — Capture the Spirit of Lhasa All our tours can be customized. The itinerary can be adjusted according to your group size, time, budget, interests, and other requirements. Just contact us. 3. Guilin — Enjoy Various Outdoor Activities The Li River is more charming under the warm sunshine of May. May is a golden time for bamboo rafting on the Yulong River and cycling in the countryside of Yangshuo. May is also the time for irrigating the Longji Terraced Fields. Seen from the mountainside viewpoints, the fields look like layer upon layer of exquisite mirrors. • Go kayaking to enjoy the cool water and appreciate the karst scenery along the Li River. • Explore a "mysterious" limestone cave with magnificent stalactites and stalagmites that has never been touched by ordinary tourists. • Hike among the Longji Terraced Fields, enjoy a lunch with a Yao family, and try some freshly-fried oil tea. 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders 4. Chengdu — Have a Spring Date with Cute Pandas May is a pleasant time to visit Chengdu with refreshing spring colors around you. Meeting the cute pandas and having a hotpot feast and other local snacks in Chengdu are must-do things. Chengduers go out to relax in the warm spring sunshine in Renmin Park. They sip cups of tea, play mahjong, enjoy a traditional teahouse ear massage, etc. • Meet the cuddly pandas in the Panda Breeding and Research Center. • Visit the last farmers' market in Chengdu, learn how to how to bargain like a local, and try some local snacks. • Enjoy a panda afternoon tea and a bird's-eye view of Tianfu Square. • 3-Day Giant Panda, Giant Buddha, and Ancient Town Tour • 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu • 8-Day Chengdu to Shangri-La Adventure Tour Contact us to create a trip for your spring break according to your group size, time, budget, interests, and other requirements. 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 12-Day Beijing-Xi'an-Chengdu-Guilin/Yangshuo-Shanghai Tour Panda Keeper and Classic Wonders 5. Zhongwei — Feel the Charm of the Desert In spring, when everyone goes to admire the flowers, a trip to the desert stands out as discerning for more than hay fever sufferers. Its advantageous and strategic location has endowed Zhongwei with the features of vast deserts and green hills, the Yellow River and an oasis. At the same time, you are able to enjoy various entertaining activities there, such as sand slides and camel rides. • Experience dune bashing, sand sledding, camel trekking, and sheepskin rafting in Shapotou. • Experience sheepskin navigation on the Yellow River. • Enjoy wine tasting and an organic lunch in peace with a view of the vineyard. • 3 Days Zhongwei Desert Tour with Winery Experience — A Sip of Desert Wilderness • Contact us to create a May trip according to your needs 6. The Yangtze River Cruise — Cozy and Relaxing The Yangtze River Cruise The Yangtze River is one of the best options to escape crowds in May Day, where you can enjoy a relatively quiet and relaxing time. The plants on the mountains and high cliffs along the Yangtze River are verdant. • Appreciate the marvelous gorge scenery from the deck • Have a cup of coffee or glass of wine bathed in the breeze • Have a wonderful welcome banquet and talk with people from all over the world Contact us if you want to book a Yangtze River Cruise. 7. The Silk Road — Rich Culture Experience Along the Silk Road, from Xi'an to Kashgar, you will find intriguing scenery, together with the historic sites and cultural places. • Bask in history and art in the Mogao Caves • Take instagrammable photos with the rainbow mountains in Zhangye Danxia National Geological Park • Discover Kashgar Old City — the only traditional historical district with typical characteristics of Xinjiang that is being preserved See 12 Best Silk Road Destinations with Recommended Things to Do . • 11-Day Along the Great Silk Road Tour • 6-Day Dunhuang and Zhangye Photography Tour • More Silk Road Tours 8. Zhangjiajie — Vigorous Forests and Seas of Clouds The mountainous scenery in Zhangjiajie is unique and fabulous and is even more charming and poetic under the misty rain and fog or early summer. It is more relaxing during this season, with fewer people around. If you want to escape the hustle and bustle, this may be the best season for you. • Escape the crowds entirely and enjoy the scenery on an off-the-beaten track route. • Bike around the beautiful and non-touristy side of Tianmen Mountain. • Experience via ferrata (cable-safe cliff challenges) at Hongyanling (Red Rock Ridge). • Try bungee jumping on the Zhangjiajie Glass Bridge 5-Day Zhangjiajie Hiking and Biking Tour for Any Level 4-Day Zhangjiajie Essence Tour 9. Chaozhou — Go on a Date with Delicacies Chaozhou has inherited a food culture dating back to the Qin (2,200 years ago) and Song (1,000 years ago) dynasties. It is a paradise for a food hunter — from its delicious Teochew beef hot pot to fresh fish dumplings, and from its crispy spring rolls to novel fermented bean curd cake. In addition to its food culture, there is much more to explore: brilliant history, distinctive folk customs… • Enjoy amazing Chaozhou cuisine in Paifang Street. • Taste Chaozhou kung fu tea and watch Chaozhou opera in a teahouse in Chaozhou Old Town. • Explore Guangji Bridge, one of the greatest creations in China's history of bridge construction, while you take in Chaozhou's history. • 3-Day Chaozhou and Shantou Tour — A Bite of Chaoshan All our tours can be customized. The itinerary can be adjusted according to your group size, time, budget, interests, and other requirements. Just contact us. 10. Jingdezhen — Best Place to Appreciate Chinese Porcelain In the south of China, there is a thousand-year-old town named after the Jingde emperor's reign in Song Dynasty. It produces a beautiful and precious product whose English name is synonymous with China, even its namesake. Welcome to Jingdezhen. Porcelain (also called china) is the soul and life of Jingdezhen. A trip to Jingdezhen is a must for china lovers and porcelain enthusiasts. • Visit the Museum of Porcelain, which will take you through China's porcelain history. • Create some porcelain of your own under the guidance of a master. • Visit Yaoli Ancient Town and find the secret ingredients of porcelain. • 3-Day Jingdezhen Porcelain Tour — Discover Why china Is Called "china" Our Most Popular May Tours If you are planning a trip in China in May, consider the following choice tours for inspiration: • 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour — Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan • 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo, and Guizhou Relaxation Tour — Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside • 8 Days Chengdu to Shangri-La Adventure Tour — A Memorable Road Trip on the HAN-TIBETAN ROAD All our tours can be customized. If you are not interested in the above destinations or tours, you can contact us to tailor-make a May tour for you. Where to Escape the Crowds in China Around Labor Day Top 8 Places You Should Visit in China in Summer