ID: b1469033e20466f
Title: How to Visit Huashan Mountain (Visiting Routes, Best Time)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xian/attraction/huashan-mountain.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

As one of the Five Great Mountains of China, Mount Hua, located near Xi'an, is well-known for its sheer cliffs and plunging ravines. It is also regarded as "the most precipitous mountain under heaven" and is probably the most dangerous mountain in the world frequented by hikers. • The Main Five Peaks in Huashan • How to Visit: Cable and Hiking • How Many Days to Spend • Best Time to Visit Huashan • How to Get to Huashan The Main Five Peaks of Mount Hua There are five peaks at Huashan, each with unique attractions and sights. Huashan also boasts a lot of religious sites — Taoist temples, pavilions, and engraved scriptures are scattered all over the mountain as well as the stone tablets for the "Competition on Huashan 华山论剑". Huashan Mountain Tour Map • North Peak: the lowest peak, the only starting point for hiking, cable car accessible It has offered the only way to hike up Huashan since ancient times, but you could also take a direct cableway up. Although it is the lowest peak, you could view East Peak, South Peak, and West Peak, which are shaped together like a large golden ingot, a perspective not visible from the other peaks. Our guests at North Peak, Mt. Huashan • Middle Peak: a connection point between the other peaks (hiking tour only) Middle Peak is a connecting point and the only way to get from North Peak to other peaks. The highlight is Black Dragon Ridge, which is between North Peak and Middle Peak. It is also a famous precipitous and narrow climbing path on Huashan. It is 1,500 meters (4,920 ft) long (less than 1 meter (3 feet) wide at its narrowest point) and along both sides of the cliffs, offering a thrilling feeling of walking above the dangerous cliffs. However, it is not difficult to climb and hike along, and there are handrails on both sides for safety. But Black Dragon Ridge is a one-way path that you could only go up, not down. • West Peak: the most beautiful peak and best for sunsets (cable car accessible) West Peak enjoys the most beautiful scenery of Huashan and you could also admire a splendid sunset. Except for North Peak, it is also the only peak that you could reach directly by cableway. • East Peak: best for admiring a sunrise (hiking tour only) East Peak is a perfect sunrise viewing spot and it is also best for experiencing a popular climbing challenge called Sparrow Hawk Flips Over, which allows you to experience the thrill of climbing the precipitous cliff. Sparrow Hawk Flips Over (鹞子翻身) insider tips: Only 50 people could enter each session since it is only possible to return the same way you have come. If you don't make it on time, you may need to wait for an hour for the next session. There are also age and height restrictions. Only people between 15 and 55 years old with a height above 160 cm (63 in) could experience it. Sparrow Hawk Flips Over (鹞子翻身) insider tips: Only 50 people could enter each session since it is only possible to return the same way you have come. If you don't make it on time, you may need to wait for an hour for the next session. There are also age and height restrictions. Only people between 15 and 55 years old with a height above 160 cm (63 in) could experience it. • South Peak: the highest peak, best for panoramic views (hiking tour only) You could enjoy a panoramic view of Huashan and gain a sense of achievement by climbing up the highest peak. The most popular challenge on South Peak is the Plank Walk, which is adventurous and thrilling. The Plank Walk (长空栈道) insider tips: You could walk along this narrow but flatter cliffside plank walkway and take breathtaking photos above the cliffs. But it is also a one-way path. We recommend avoiding visiting at weekends or during holidays as there are more queues during these times. The Plank Walk also has restrictions, such as only those aged between 15 and 55 with heights of over 150 cm (59 in), a maximum of 30 people per session, and everyone must work in pairs. The Plank Walk (长空栈道) insider tips: You could walk along this narrow but flatter cliffside plank walkway and take breathtaking photos above the cliffs. But it is also a one-way path. We recommend avoiding visiting at weekends or during holidays as there are more queues during these times. The Plank Walk also has restrictions, such as only those aged between 15 and 55 with heights of over 150 cm (59 in), a maximum of 30 people per session, and everyone must work in pairs. How to Visit Huashan Mountain: Cable Car and Hiking There are two cableways at Mount Hua, leading to North Peak or West Peak, but you need to hike to visit the other peaks. If you want to visit all five peaks without this being very strenuous, we recommend combining a round-trip cableway with light hiking. Cableway in Mt.Huashan North Up West Down / West Up North Down These are the most popular tour routes but need more energy so are more suitable for active people. Both routes cover most of the highlights of Huashan and allow you to visit all five peaks in a day, taking about 5–6 hours. 1. North Peak up West Peak down route: cableway up to North Peak→Middle Peak→East Peak→South Peak→West Peak (cableway down the mountain) It is the most classic route and you could gain more climbing experiences as most sections are uphill roads. The part from North Peak to Middle Peak would be steeper and more strenuous to hike across but the other parts are easier to climb by contrast. You may catch the sunset just in time when you reach West Peak and are about to go back down. 2. West Peak up North Peak down route: cableway up to West Peak→South Peak→East Peak→Middle Peak→North Peak (cableway down the mountain) If you prefer a less crowded and more energy-saving route, this route is recommended as most of the parts are downhill. However, the downhill roads may make your knees feel sore. This route wouldn't pass Black Dragon Ridge. You would walk along a downhill path called Flying Fish Ridge beside Black Dragon Ridge. These two ridges intersect at one point and you could go up Black Dragon Ridge but need to walk along Flying Fish Ridge again when you return. 4-Day Xi'an Tour Mt Hua, Terracotta Warriors Museum, and Big Wild Goose Pagoda 4-Day Xi'an Tour Mt Hua, Terracotta Warriors Museum, and Big Wild Goose Pagoda 4-Day Xi'an Tour Mt Hua, Terracotta Warriors Museum, and Big Wild Goose Pagoda West Up West Down / North Up North Down These routes are the most time-saving and energy-saving, with a round-trip cableway and fewer walks, ideal for a family with kids and the elderly. The visiting time is about 2–3 hours. 1. West Peak up West Peak down route: cableway up and down, traveling around West Peak It's ideal for those who want to experience the most beautiful views of Huashan at a leisurely pace. You don't need to walk very much for the whole trip, but you could also add a short hike to South Peak depending on your physical energy as you would go back and forth for an hour. 2. North Peak up North Peak down route: cableway up and down, traveling around North Peak It is the most time-saving route and offers the most iconic view. In addition, North Peak offers more classic sights but experiencing them requires some hiking. If your physical strength is better, you could also add a hike to Black Dragon Ridge. Complete Hiking Tour: Challenging but Worthwhile Route: Yuquan Temple→North Peak→Middle Peak→East Peak (spend a night to see the next day's sunrise) →South Peak→West Peak→return to Middle Peak→North Peak→Yuquan Temple If you're a hiking enthusiast or have a foundation in sport and want to challenge yourself on this precipitous mountain, this route provides a complete hiking tour and is suitable for you. The whole hiking trip would last 2 days as it may take between 10 and 20 hours depending on your hiking pace. Spending a night on the top could help you to recharge and you could also witness a spectacular sunrise over East Peak. Climb the vertical cliffside ladder in Mt. Huashan Accommodation on Mount Hua The accommodation is limited at the top, with no lodging available at South Peak. The popular option is Mount Hua East Peak Hotel, which is the most convenient for sunrise views. However, the rooms are mostly double rooms or dormitory rooms with 1.2-meter (3.9-ft) beds but no private bathroom, and the price would also be relatively high. You may need to lower your expectations to allow for the basic conditions. You could also take or rent a tent. Middle Peak is better for camping since the wind at East Peak would be stronger. How Many Days to Spend on Huashan Mountain Spending 1–2 days visiting Mount Hua is enough. If you also want to tour Xi'an, you could combine a day trip to Huashan with your Xi'an itinerary, starting from Xi'an and having a same-day return. • 1 day: The most popular choice, with enough time to visit the highlights of Huashan, typically combining the cable car with hiking. Start from and return to Xi'an in a day (better for a private transfer). • 2 days: suitable for hiking or touring at a slow pace, or to witness a sunrise Xi'an Itinerary Suggestion with Huashan • Day 1: Xi'an arrival • Day 2: the Terracotta Army • Day 3: Mount Hua • Day 4: Xi'an city highlights and departure Best Time to Visit Huashan Mountain April to October is the best time to visit Mount Hua, especially April to May and September to October if you prefer more clear days, comfortable temperatures, and fewer crowds. The rainfall on Huashan is mainly concentrated in May to October but it won't last for a long time, even during the peak rainy season. You may be lucky enough to see a sea of clouds after the rain. From November to March, there may be snow on the mountain. Due to the significant vertical drop, the temperature difference at Mount Huashan is about 10°C (50°F) between the summit and the base, as well as between day and night. Average Highest and Lowest Temperatures at Mount Hua Month Highest Lowest Month Highest Lowest January 5°C (41°F) -7°C (19°F) July 31°C (88°F) 21°C (70°F) February 9°C (48°F) -3°C (27°F) August 30°C (86°F) 20°C (68°F) March 16°C (61°F) 3°C (37°F) September 25°C (77°F) 15°C (59°F) April 22°C (72°F) 9°C (48°F) October 19°C (66°F) 9°C (48°F) May 27°C (81°F) 14°C (57°F) November 13°C (55°F) 2°C (36°F) June 31°C (88°F) 19°C (66°F) December 6°C (43°F) -6°C (21°F) Spring: Peach Flower Blossoms Spring is one of the best times to visit Huashan, with more clear and warm days in April and May that are ideal for climbing. You could also enjoy spring scenery, such as peach blossoms, from mid-March to early April. With fewer visitors, you would spend less time waiting for the cable car, except during the May Day holiday. Summer: Verdant Scenery and a Sea of Clouds Summer offers great views of Huashan's sea of clouds and lush scenery. However, it is the rainy season, so there's a higher chance of encountering rainy or foggy days, which would affect your viewing and lead to slippery roads. Summer is also the peak season, especially in July and August, with large crowds and long cable car queues. If you want to avoid the tourists, getting up early would help. Autumn: Capture Colorful Autumn Sights Autumn is another one of the best times to visit Huashan as it enjoys fewer rainy days and cooler weather than in summer, making climbing more enjoyable. It is also the best season to capture vibrant autumn colors, especially from mid-October to early November. You would also experience fewer crowds and cableway queues in autumn, except for during the National Day holiday. Winter: Rime and Snow Winter is the best time to admire rime and snow on Huashan, but you would need to check the weather for any snow. It could be very cold with frozen patches, making it unsuitable for hiking due to slippery icy paths. However, this season also experiences fewer visitors and lines for cableways as well as having more cost-effective prices for tickets. But the cableways are usually temporarily and alternately closed for maintenance in November or early December. Rime viewing at Middle Peak How to Get to Mount Hua The best way to get to Huashan is by taking a private car from your hotel in Xi'an, which is more convenient and goes directly to the tourist center at Huashan in about a 1½-hour drive. If you prefer a more cost-effective way, you could take a bullet train to Huashan or Huashan North Railway Station, then transfer to the tourist center by bus or taxi. However, there may be a long wait for the bus and the taxi may charge extra money, which is especially inconvenient after you have gone back down the mountain and want to catch your train. Then, to take a cableway, you need to transfer to the right cable car station via a shuttle bus from the tourist center. But for a hiking trip, a private car could take you to Yuquan Temple directly, or you could take a taxi to Yuquan Temple from the railway station. • 3-Day Essence of Xi'an Tour • 3-Day Beijing to Xi'an by High-Speed Rail • 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery