ID: 30dce2a070bfa2de
Title: Top 8 Places to Escape the Golden Week Crowds
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/escape-golden-week-crowds.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

National Day in China (October 1-7) is known as the "Golden Week". Chinese people will have a 7-day holiday. It is the peak season for travel. Since everyone has the week off, it is an inescapable fact that golden week is a very busy travel time. During golden week, most Chinese people will go to large famous cities or coastal cities such as Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Qingdao, and Sanya. The southwest, west, and northeastern parts of China are often less crowded and definitely worth a visit. 1. Tibet — Lofty Mountain Splendor The culture, nature, and people there are reasons for you to pay a visit to Tibet at least once in your lifetime. From the unspoiled sacred lakes to the world's highest peak — Mount Everest; from the vast untouched Changtang Grasslands to the depths of the Yarlung-Tsangpo Canyon, the Roof of the World is filled with awe and pristine beauty. Tibet doesn't accept independent travelers. Traveling with a travel agency is required. Contact us to explore the main highlights from Lhasa to Everest Base Camp. Consider a top Tibet trekking trip, Everest Base Camp trek, if you'd love a more outdoorsy experience. Recommended Tibet Tours: • 8-Day Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Tour — Pilgrimage to the Roof of the World • 5-Day Lhasa Classics and Lake Yamdrok Tour — Lhasa Highlights and Holy Lake • 4-Day Lhasa Highlights Comfort Tour — Capture the Spirit of Lhasa 2. Gannan for Outdoor Paradise Located in south western Gansu Province and the northeast of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, Gannan has both Tibetan culture and stunning plateau landscape. This area is famous for having a similar feel to Tibet but doesn't require a Travel Permit. With the average altitude of 3,000 meters above sea level, you can experience Tibetan culture and enjoy the plateau scenery in comfort and without the risk of altitude sickness. Here you will see grand prairies, scattered lakes, monasteries, Tibetan villages, unique mountain peaks, and hidden wonderlands. This is a trip you will not want to miss. Itinerary Quick Look: • Day1: Lanzhou Arrival • Day2: Lanzhou to Xiahe (250 km, 3.5 hrs): Liujiaxia Reservoir Speedboat Ride and Bingling Temple • Day3: Xiahe To Langmusi (220 km, 4 hrs; highest altitude: 3350 m): Labrang Monastery, Ganjia Prairie and Bajiao City Ruins • Day4: Langmusi to Tangke (115 km, 2 hrs): Langmusi Monastery (Setri Compa), The First Bend of Yellow River at sunset • Day5: Tangke to Langmusi via Zhagana (97 km, 2.5 hrs; highest altitude: 3300 m): Huahu Lake in Ruoergai Grand Prairie, Zhagana Scenic Area • Day6: Langmusi to Lanzhou for departure (391 km, 5.5 hrs) Gannan: An Earthly Pure Land 6-Day Xiahe, Langmusi and Zhagana Tour > Gannan: An Earthly Pure Land 6-Day Xiahe, Langmusi and Zhagana Tour > Gannan: An Earthly Pure Land 6-Day Xiahe, Langmusi and Zhagana Tour 3. Western Sichuan Province for Alpine Scenery and Tibetan Culture Autumn is a perfect season for outdoor activities and is when you can enjoy the fresh air and cool weather. How about taking a hike through tall mountains and rolling fields? The western part of Sichuan offers routes with stunning natural scenery and minority cultures that are popular with photographers and outdoor lovers alike. The golden fall colors in Daocheng are gorgeous. Especially when put together with the white snowy mountains and different varieties of plant life. Daocheng is a popular stopover point on the journey to Yading, a place where you can gain insight into the nature of the Tibetan minority culture. Hongcaodi, Konkaling, Xiongdeng Temple, Bangpu Temple, and Rewa Temple are the top attractions here. In autumn, the red bushes of Hongcaodi combined with the yellow foliage under the clear blue sky are believed to exhibit the colors of heaven. The temples in these mountains represent the local Buddhist culture. Above freezing in October: The temperature in autumn stays around 10°C (40-50°F). Recommended Sichuan Tours: • 5-Day Daocheng and Yading Tour — Walk in Fairy Tales of Autumn • 8-Day Sichuan Adventure Tour — A Golden Circle for Diverse Landscapes and the Tibetan Culture • 9-Day Panorama Western Sichuan Tour 4. Inner Mongolia — Enjoy the Populous Euphratica Forest Populous Euphratica Forest Inner Mongolia is located in Northern China, bordering Russia and Mongolia (Outer Mongolia). With a total area of 1.18 million square kilometers, Inner Mongolia's size is as large as four Britain's. October is a great time to visit Inner Mongolia. At this time, travelers can go to the quiet Ejina to enjoy the wonderful scenery of the area's unique populous Euphratica forest. The particularity of its geographical position has blessed Inner Mongolia with rich travel resources including plains, deserts, sparkling lakes, and massive herds of cattle and sheep. You can even experience the Mongols' ancient sporting traditions like horse racing, wrestling, and archery. Recommended Inner Mongolia Tours: • 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Photography Tour • 6-Day Grassland and Desert Tour with Hiking and Camping • More Inner Mongolia tours 5. Silk Road Discovery of Zhangye and Dunhuang Zhangye Danxia Landform Traveling China's Silk Road is a journey into China's ancient history and diverse culture quite unlike any other. It's a journey of contrasts: Han and Uyghur ethnicities, Buddhist and Muslim religion, Eastern and Central Asian culture, natural and man-made wonders, dry desert and Alpine mountain scenery. The best time to travel to the Silk Road is from May to October. Weather conditions are pleasant from late spring to early autumn with an average temperature of 15 °C. Although summer weather can be hot, the weather is dry and much more comfortable than hot days in the humid tropics. We recommend this time because the scenery is ideal when the fruits ripen, the flowers are in full bloom, and green grass covers the plateaus. Our private China Silk Road tours offer an easy and flexible pace tailored for everyone to experience the history, culture relics, ethnic minorities, landscape, and local interaction along the great Silk Road. With our local tour guides and exclusive arrangement, you will touch the heartbeat under the ground of the Silk Road. Recommended Silk Road Tours: • 7-Day Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Ejina Photography Tour • 6-Day Zhangye and Dunhuang Photography Tour • More Silk Road tours 6. Great Wall Hiking and Camping Caming on the Great Wall A hiking of the wild Great Wall is definitely an amazing experience in October, especially during the Golden Week (Ntional Day holidays) if you want to get away from crowds. Hiking, campng, having a BBQ dinner, sharing beers with friends, appreciating the enchanting sunset and sunrise over the Great Wall... All these exciting things you experienced on the Great Wall will be your unforgetable memory. Recommended Great Wall Hiking Tours: • 2-Day Jiankou Wild Great Wall Camping Tour • 1-Day Jinshanling Great Wall Hiking • More Great Wall hiking tours 7. Qinghai Province for the Quiet and Beautiful Expanses If you have a craving for pure and stunning natural scenery and don't want to be disturbed by crowds, Qinghai Province in the northwest of China may be just the place for you. Qinghai Lake is the sparkling jewel of north west China. Although autumn is not said to be the best time to visit the lake, the season offers a different kind of beauty well-worth seeing. The lake is quieter and more peaceful in autumn when it is decorated with yellow grasslands and snow-capped mountains. Standing on the banks, you will have a wide view of the scenery. This huge lake and quiet environment will make you feel at peace and engulfed in natural beauty. Recommended Qinghai Tours: • Qinghai Lake Biking Tour • 8-Day Miraculous Qinghai and Legendary Silk Road Tour 8. Kaili in Guizhou Province for Minority Culture Guizhou Province is home to many of China's minority groups and Kaili is one of the best places to use as a base for exploring these minority cultures. In Kaili, the museum, the Sunday market, and the villages nearby with their unique culture and architecture are all worth a visit. Western travelers typically enjoy a two or three-day stay in Kaili. It is said that in Kaili "Grand festivals occur there every three days, while minor ones occur every day." Recommended Guizhou Tours: • 6-Day Diverse Minority Adventure • More Guizhou tours Travel Smart during Golden Week with China Highlights contact us for updated travel information and tours > contact us for updated travel information and tours > contact us for updated travel information and tours Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions. All our tours can be customized. We will create a trip for your vacation according to your group size, time, budget, interests, and other requirements. If you have a preferred place to visit in addition to the above, please contact us and we could also make an itinerary for you. You Might Like to Read • Top 10 Places to Visit in October in China • Best Places to Visit in November in China • Top Places to Visit in Autumn in China • China Weather in October — Travel Tips for October