ID: b9e08bd0338a760
Title: China Weather in November 2025: Places to Go & Crowds
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/weather/november.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-10-03T00:00:00
================================================================================

Is November a good time to visit China? I would say November could be an ideal time to travel in China after the peak season crowds head home and before the worst of the chilly winter weather arrives. You could also appreciate the amazing scenery. Red, gold, yellow, and brown hues create amazing autumnal views and the sky is usually clear in the dry season of fall. North China may see its first snow, but Central and South China have moderate and comfortable temperatures. • November Weather Conditions • Weather in North China • Weather in East China • Weather in South China • Weather in West China • Top 6 Places to Visit in November • Crowds and Costs China Weather in November: Overview • Average daily temperature range: 3–13°C (37–55°F) • Average rainfall: 29 mm (1 in), low • Average rainy days: 2 • Average sunny days: 28 Weather in North China (Beijing, Harbin, Xi'an...) November is the beginning of the real winter weather in China's northern and high-altitude areas. North China gets crisp, cool, and clear weather. You'll have a good chance of catching the first snowfall in Harbin by mid-November. Average temperatures range from -10°C (14°F ) to 0°C (32°F). While the Ice and Snow Festival hasn't started yet, you can already enjoy various winter activities. Yabuli Ski Resort usually opens around November 20–25. During this period, Harbin is relatively less crowded compared with the peak winter season. Beijing gets cool days, and it usually stays above freezing at night. The average temperature range is 0–10°C (32–50°F) and there is typically just 1 day of low rainfall, around 13 mm (0.5 in) in November. Xi'an will be a little warmer than Beijing, averaging 4–13°C (39–55°F). The days are still pleasant and most days are clear. Clothing: November is cold at night. Wear a coat, gloves, and head covering as well as lighter clothes. See 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Tour. Weather in East China (Shanghai, Hangzhou...) There are generally cool or warm days and cool nights that are well above freezing in East China. The comfortable weather and sunshine in the east are great for outdoor activities, sightseeing, and traveling around. Take Shanghai as an example — the average temperature range is 9–17°C (48–63°F) and there are typically 5 days of low rainfall (42 mm, 1½ in) in November. Shanghai generally has pleasant autumnal weather and there may be fog in the mornings. However, a cold snap might bring bitter windy weather with it. Clothing: Wear a jacket, light clothing, and a hat/hood Weather in South China (Guilin, Guangzhou, Hong Kong...) South China's temperature is comfortable at about 20°C (68°F) during the daytime. There is still some rainfall in November, so it won't be too dry. Take Guilin as an example — the average temperature range is 11–19°C (52–66°F) in November. Guangzhou and Hong Kong benefit from warm and sunny weather, which is ideal for outdoor activities, sightseeing, and shopping in the street markets. There is little rain. November and December are the most pleasant months. Clothing: The weather is changeable in most of the region. It is generally warm, but it can get cold unexpectedly. You would need warm weather clothing and a jacket. Check out our popular 6-Day Essence of Guangzhou and Zhangjiajie Tour Weather in West China (Chengdu, Tibet, Yunnan...) In most areas, the temperature falls significantly — it gets cold and the mountains receive snow. There are usually no rainy days in November in West China. The average temperature range in Lhasa is -3–15°C (27–59°F), and there are usually completely clear days in November. Chengdu's temperature is 9–16°C (48–61°F) and there are typically 4 days of low rainfall (16 mm, 0.5 in) in November. Yunnan has a large temperature difference between day and night. During the day, the temperature is warm at about 20°C (68°F). However, it has cold nights that are just above freezing. Clothing: The weather is changeable in most of the region. It is generally warm, but it can get cold unexpectedly. You would need warm weather clothing and a jacket. Recommended November China Tours 2-Week Beijing–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie–Guilin–Shanghai Tour 11-Day Yunnan and Chongqing Natural Tour 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road All our tours can be customized based on your requirements. Feel free to contact us. Recommended November China Tours • 2-Week Beijing–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie–Guilin–Shanghai Tour • 11-Day Yunnan and Chongqing Natural Tour • 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road All our tours can be customized based on your requirements. Feel free to contact us. Is It Crowded or Expensive When Traveling in November November is the low season for Chinese tourism, so you could benefit as prices decrease substantially from what they were during the high season. Typically crowded attractions reach a state of calm in November. Together with the cool, dry weather, November is a really good time to travel. Top 5 Places to Visit in China in November Autumn scenery and leisurely outdoor activities are highlights of traveling in China in November. If you enjoy landscapes, destinations like Huangshan and Guilin are excellent choices. Outdoor activities, such as hiking on the Great Wall, are also well-suited for November. For urban experiences and culture coupled with pleasant weather, Shanghai and Hong Kong are good choices. Shanghai is quiet in November, with a charming blend of autumnal colors and urban vibrancy. The plane trees on both sides of the streets turn a golden hue, complemented by the gentle breeze and warm sunlight, making it perfect for a leisurely stroll in the former French Concession. You could see almost all of the architectural styles of old Shanghai there. There are also numerous cafés and museums. As for the unmissable Bund, compared to a simple sightseeing trip for photo shoots, an in-depth walking tour, which we offer, with a local guide would take you into some old buildings and help you understand the stories behind them. At night, we could carefully select a hotel with a rooftop bar for you. There, you could leisurely enjoy the night view of the Bund and the moon with a glass of wine. Check out our newly launched 5-Day Shanghai and Hangzhou High Tech Tour. Our clients in the Yellow Mountains November also brings fewer crowds to the Yellow Mountains, allowing you to immerse yourself in the serenity of the mountains and fully appreciate the tranquility of the surroundings. The crisp air carries a hint of winter, enhancing the clarity of the panoramic views. November is one of the best times to see the seas of clouds between the Yellow Mountain peaks. As you ascend, misty veils often shroud the peaks, creating an ethereal atmosphere. The granite peaks, twisted pines, and iconic stone pathways appear to float amid the seas of clouds, making for a truly otherworldly experience. Bishan Village is also a highlight. You could walk around the village to see how artists have turned this small area into a rural utopia. If you are interested in craftsmanship and Chinese culture, we recommend the experience of making traditional Chinese lanterns. It could be a great souvenir to take home. If you are interested in a Huangshan tour, see our popular 7-Day Huangshan, Shanghai, and Hangzhou Tour November is a good time to explore the Guilin countryside, revealing charming villages and rice terraces that seem to glow in the autumn light. The terraced fields, adorned with their golden harvest, create a patchwork quilt of colors that stretches into the distance. Beyond the natural beauty, its cultural experiences also beckon. Visit a minority family and enjoy lunch with them. You could see how local dishes are cooked, such as how to cook rice inside a bamboo tube and the process of making oil tea. For a leisurely experience, take a Li River cruise. The Li River meanders gracefully through this stunning backdrop, reflecting the striking peaks and lush vegetation along its banks. 2-Week Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Guilin, Xian, and Beijing Tour Touch Chinese Elegance 2-Week Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Guilin, Xian, and Beijing Tour Touch Chinese Elegance 2-Week Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Guilin, Xian, and Beijing Tour Touch Chinese Elegance The Great Wall and the Forbidden City, which are must-see attractions, have fewer tourists in November, which is undoubtedly one of the biggest advantages of visiting Beijing at this time. Views of the Great Wall are still good in November. The Great Wall weaves through forests displaying their fall colors. The watchtowers and battlements seem to emerge from the foliage, offering breathtaking vistas that span the horizon. You could explore the old hutong area, where you could visit a local family. From talking to them, you would get a local perspective on the area's history and way of life. See Top Hutongs to Visit in Beijing. If you want an exceptional night out in Beijing, you could start a food tour. From hidden snack bars in the hutongs to street-side shops that are popular with locals to renowned roast duck restaurants, you could sample Beijing's signature snacks, dishes, drinks, and desserts. Visiting Tibet in November allows you to take full advantage of the off-peak season, benefiting from more affordable prices and a less crowded travel experience. It's a time to witness the resilience of both nature and the local people in the face of the changing seasons and to appreciate the raw and untamed magnificence of Tibet's landscapes. You could pay a visit to the Potala Palace and stroll along Barkhor Street, following in devout pilgrims' footsteps and experiencing the profound Buddhist ambiance of Tibet. There, you could also imbibe the daily rhythms of Tibetan life at a local market. Lakes, such as Yamdrok Lake and Namtso Lake, which are usually surrounded by snow-capped peaks, can be frozen over during November, adding an extra layer of enchantment to their already stunning beauty. You could get more ideas on our Top Places to Visit in China in November. Recommended China Tours We could solve the problem of planning a complex trip in an unfamiliar region for you, saving you time and effort while ensuring that your travel needs and desires are met. Just contact us to book a tour by telling us your requirements. When booking with us, you would receive a 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights if you cancel up to 3 weeks before departure. (See more on our cancellation policy.) All of our tours can be adjusted or customized based on your requirements. See some of our popular itineraries for inspiration: • 10-Day Beyond the Golden Triangle with Shanxi • 12-Day Shanghai – Beijing – Hong Kong – Guangzhou – Zhangjiajie Tour • More popular China Tours Monthly Weather and Travel Information for China • China Weather in January • China Weather in February • China Weather in March • China Weather in April • China Weather in May • China Weather in June • China Weather in July • China Weather in August • China Weather in September • China Weather in October • China Weather in November • China Weather in December