ID: 482c723a43a23f7
Title: Hong Kong Shopping: What to Buy and Where to Buy
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/hong-kong/shopping.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Hong Kong is perhaps the best shopping place in the world. In Hong Kong, shopping is not only the act of buying things but is also a form of recreation and a way of life. Here is an ultimate guide about what to shop and where to shop in Hong Kong. What to Buy in Hong Kong There is a wide range of things to buy in Hong Kong. The best three buys are clothes, cosmetics, and electrical appliances. Here are the top items to buy: • Designer clothes and handbags • Cosmetics and perfume • Electronics and computers • Jewelry • Watches • Hong Kong pastries • Tailor-make suits Where to Shop in Hong Kong Hong Kong is the world's best shopping site with shopping malls, department stores, and street markets. Below, we would like to give you a guide to the best shopping areas, malls, and markets for shopping in Hong Kong. Get some inspiration from our page How to Plan a One-Day Middle-Budget Shopping Tour in Hong Kong. Top Hong Kong Shopping Areas Hong Kong's shopping areas are mostly located in Hong Kong Island and Kowloon. The main shopping places in Hong Kong Island are Central, Causeway Bay, North Point, and Admiralty. The main shopping sites in Kowloon are Tsim Sha Tsui, Mong Kok, Jordan, and Yau Ma Tei. Central is Hong Kong's business and economic center with top boutique stores and large shopping malls. The exclusive luxury mall in Central is LANDMARK, which is a cluster of world-famous brands, including Chanel, LV, Gucci, Loewe, Polo Ralph Lauren, and other famous brands. • Address: 15 Queen's Road Central, Central, Hong Kong Island • How to get there: MTR Central Station, Exit G The IFC Mall (International Finance Centre Mall) is one of the most fashionable shopping and leisure centers in Hong Kong, combining shopping, leisure, and entertainment. The biggest highlights of the IFC Mall are Hong Kong's flagship Apple Store, Lane Crawford, city'super department stores, and the world's only agnès b. flagship store. In addition, the mall has a terrace garden on the 4th floor where visitors can overlook Victoria Harbour. • Address: 8 Finance Street, Central, Hong Kong Island • How to get there: MTR Central Station, Exit A Causeway Bay and Admiralty Causeway Bay is a microcosm of the entire Hong Kong shopping scene, with high-end malls, medium-priced boutique stores, affordable department stores, and bargain street markets. SOGO Department Store SOGO Department Store in Causeway Bay is the largest Japanese-style department store in Hong Kong. It is a shopping landmark for locals and tourists. You can buy cosmetics brands, such as Shiseido and Lancôme, and luxury brands, such as Gucci and Omega, as well as watches, fashion accessories, and jewelry. • Address: 555 Hennessy Road, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong Island • How to get there: MTR Causeway Bay Station, Exit D2, D3, or D4 The brands in the Times Square mall are generally mid-range. There are three major department stores and more than 20 restaurants in the mall. The three major department stores are Marks and Spencer, a British department store that imports goods directly from the UK, Lane Crawford, which is a collection of world-class brands, and city'super, which sells groceries from various countries. • Address: 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong Island • How to get there: MTR Causeway Bay Station, Exit A Pacific Place has five floors and features a Harvey Nichols department store and a number of designer stores. There are several halls in the mall, which are venues for various exhibitions and fashion shows. • Address: 88 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong Island • How to get there: MTR Admiralty Station, Exit F Tsim Sha Tsui in Kowloon is a flourishing luxury shopping and recreational area, with many high-end shops and restaurants. Hong Kong's largest shopping mall, Harbour City, has more than 400 stores and 50 restaurants. You can spend a whole day shopping there. • Address: 3–27 Canton Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon • How to get there: MTR Tsim Sha Tsui Station, Exit A1 DFS, which owns 50% of the world's fashion brands, not only has the world-famous Bally, Burberry, Cartier, and other brand-name stores, but also offers exclusive souvenirs and gifts. • Address: 28 Canton Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon • How to get there: MTR Tsim Sha Tsui Station, Exit E Mong Kok and Yau Ma Tei Mong Kok and Yau Ma Tei are shopping areas that preserve Hong Kong's traditional characteristics with an array of markets, small shops, and food stalls. The most popular shopping malls are Langham Place and New Century Plaza, and there are specialty shopping streets, such as Ladies' Market, Garden Street, and Goldfish Street. Discover the Top 8 Shopping Areas in Hong Kong. Top Hong Kong Shopping Malls A shopping street in Hong Kong There are many shopping malls in Hong Kong, from the luxury to the moderate. You will enjoy a comfortable shopping experience in the malls, which are well-designed and decorated and offer restaurants, book stores, and cinemas. • Landmark, Hong Kong Island: the high altar of Hong Kong shopping with prestigious international brands and the finest restaurants • Pacific Place, Hong Kong Island: a mixture of many luxurious stores and some moderately priced stores • Times Square, Hong Kong Island: one of Hong Kong's busiest malls with European, American, and Japanese stores spanning mid-price to luxury fashion • Harbour City, Kowloon: the largest shopping mall in Hong Kong; a must-visit destination with shopping, dining, entertainment, and sightseeing • Festival Walk, Kowloon: a multi-level shopping, dining, and leisure complex catering to all budgets and all shopping styles Top Hong Kong Street Markets Adventurous travelers should pay a visit to the street markets in Hong Kong, where you can experience the real local lifestyle and enjoy the happiness brought by various local products (including clothes, unique souvenirs, electronic products, and seafood) and the surprises of grabbing a bargain. Temple Street Night Market • Ladies' Market, Kowloon: Ladies' Market in Tung Choi Street is a great destination for the fashion conscious and those with an eye for bargain-priced sport shoes, watches, clothing, stationery, and cosmetics. • Temple Street Night Market, Kowloon: It is a wonderful place to shop and to eat. It has an astonishing variety of clothing, CDs, hardware, pens, trinkets, watches, and luggage. • Stanley Market, Hong Kong Island: It is the perfect place to buy something special for friends or relatives: Chinese artwork, silk collectibles, and curios, as well as larger-sized clothing. • Jardine's Crescent, Hong Kong Island: It is a long roadside market that is great for inexpensive clothing, accessories, and domestic goods. • Li Yuen Street East and West, Hong Kong Island: The market deals with everything from inexpensive souvenirs, clothing, and costume jewelry to luggage and shoes. Read more information about the Best Street Markets in Hong Kong. Top Hong Kong Specialist Markets Flower Market in Hong Kong • Flower Market, Kowloon: It is a great place to just visit or to buy flowers, plants, and horticultural accessories. • Bird Market, Kowloon: This market is near Flower Market. You can see a great variety of birds and witness the recreational life of elderly people. • Goldfish Market, Kowloon: It is near Flower Market and Bird Market. You can buy luck-bringing goldfish and other tropical aquarium pets. • Tai Yuen Street, Hong Kong Island: It is famous for its inexpensive toys. This is a paradise for kids. • Apliu Street, Kowloon: It is known for bargains on a wide variety of new and used gadgets, electronic appliances, and computer products. • Jade Market: It is crowded with stalls selling jade items. It is a great place for tourists to spend a morning browsing and soaking up the atmosphere. Hong Kong is undoubtedly a great place for shopping all year round. If you know its sales seasons, you could save some money. Hong Kong usually has two sales seasons: winter sales (December to February, especially around Christmas and Chinese New Year) and summer sales (July to September). Learn more about Christmas shopping in Hong Kong. These sales are mostly to be found in big shops, department stores, and shopping malls. Top Shopping Reminders for You 1. Visa, American Express, and DC cards are widely accepted. Bargaining is not common and is limited to some small shops or outdoor markets. 2. Shops are open for business during the Spring Festival. It is actually a very good shopping opportunity because many shops launch promotions and discounts. Big shops, department stores, and shopping malls even extend their business hours before the festival, but from the first to the fourth day they may close early. Most small shops and grocery stores close, and resume business from the fourth day of the festival. This applies to shops in Chinese mainland as well. 3. Do choose shopping malls with the sign of "Excellence" granted by the Hong Kong Tourism Board, because they can guarantee quality and service, and their goods are clearly priced. Be cautious about buying anything without price tags. 4. Keep the receipt and credit card receipt after the transaction, and always check carefully that the contents of your shopping bag are exactly what you have purchased, in case they have been changed. 5. If you have any trouble with a shop owner, call the HKTB's Quality Tourism Services (28062823) for help. 6. Always keep an eye on your personal belongings. Tour Hong Kong with China Highlights Tour Hong Kong with China Highlights Our tours are private. You are the key to controlling the pace of the tour; if you would like to spend more or less time in some local markets, just let your guide know. The evening is your free time, and you can do some shopping on your own. Your guide will be glad to give you some recommendations and assistance if you need help. Here are our most popular Hong Kong tours, for your reference: • 10-Day Imperial and Scenic China Family Tour — taking you to visit the highlights in Beijing, Guilin, Yangshuo, and Hong Kong See more Hong Kong tours. Our tours are customizable — tell us your interests and requirements and we will help you to tailor-make a Hong Kong tour. • The Hong Kong Summer Shopping Season • The Top 8 Shopping Areas in Hong Kong — Luxury Malls to Street Markets • 10 Facts You Should Know About Hong Kong Shopping • Top 7 Street Markets in Hong Kong