ID: 786304c09a40c926
Title: How to Visit Shilin Gorge: Follow a Local Guide's Suggestions
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/beijing/attraction/shilin-gorge.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

If somebody asked me which is the best place to go during a weekend, then, undoubtedly, the most prominent feature is Stone Forest Gorge. My personal experience of Shilinxia is that it is a good place to get away from the hustle and bustle of the city and get close to nature. Known as Zhangjiajie in the north, Stone Forest Gorge is famous for its magnificent natural scenery and unique geological landscape. It is a rare karst landscape in northern China. This landform is mainly composed of quartz sand. People have built observation decks, stone forests, waterfalls, and colorful pools on the basis of this terrain. I highly recommend that you visit on a clear day regarding the clouds and mist between the canyons. It would leave you with beautiful memories. Facts about Shilin Gorge: • Tickets: 68 RMB for adults, 34 RMB for students and the elderly • Cable car: 180 RMB (round trip) • Observation deck: 40 RMB • Opening hours: 8am–5pm • Location: Huangsongyu, Pingu District, Beijing, about 100 kilometers (62 miles) away (1–1½ hours) from downtown Beijing • Suggested visit duration: half a day to 1 day Lily Shang 10+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hi, I'm Lily, a tour guide in Beijing. I have lived in Beijing for nearly twenty years, and in my heart, it has become my second hometown. I deeply love this city. I used to live in a hutong, but I have now moved into an apartment building, witnessing the changes in Beijing over the past twenty years. From the magnificent Forbidden City to the bustling Tiananmen Square, every corner of Beijing hides endless stories. 10+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hi, I'm Lily, a tour guide in Beijing. I have lived in Beijing for nearly twenty years, and in my heart, it has become my second hometown. I deeply love this city. I used to live in a hutong, but I have now moved into an apartment building, witnessing the changes in Beijing over the past twenty years. From the magnificent Forbidden City to the bustling Tiananmen Square, every corner of Beijing hides endless stories. • UFO Glass Viewing Platform: Biggest Highlight • Other Highlights • Best Times • Transportation • Is It Okay to Go Back and Forth to Beijing in 1 Day? • Other Useful Tips • What Attractions Can Be Visited with It? Shilinxia UFO Glass Viewing Platform: Biggest Highlight UFO Glass Viewing Platform Located at the highest point of Shilin Scenic Area, the Shilin UFO Glass Observation Deck is the best place to enjoy the full scenery of Shilin. The highlight of the observation deck is its unique UFO shape and fully transparent glass design, which makes you feel as though you are suspended in the air. You could experience thrilling excitement. The Shilin Gorge Glass Viewing Platform is made of clear glass and covers an area of over 400 square meters (4,306 square feet). The suspended span of Shilin Gorge Glass Viewing Platform reaches 32.8 meters (108 feet), and it is a covered bridge. The Shilin Gorge Glass Viewing Platform is built with titanium alloy, which is safe and reliable and overlooks the entire canyon from 360 degrees. Our guide stood on the platform with our guests In addition, the observation deck offers a view of Huangsongyu Reservoir. When you are standing there, spread your arms and revel in the joy that nature gives you. It's really wonderful. If you are attracted by amazing UFO Glass Viewing Platform, you could contact us to arrange a trip to Shilin Gorge for you. How to Get to the Observation Deck You could choose to walk or take the cable car to reach the observation deck. I recommend this method: If you have good physical strength, it is recommended to walk as you could enjoy more natural scenery along the way. Watch the wonders of the clouds and mist while walking If you are looking to save energy, the cable car is a good option too. Walking route: If you start from the entrance, go up along the canyon trail. The whole journey is about 3 kilometers (2 miles) and the walking time is about 2½ hours. Usually, when I take clients, I would walk first, by walking all the way to the waterfall, which is a distance of approximately 2 kilometers (1 mile), taking about 2 hours. Then, we would take the Dragon King Cableway, which is fully enclosed. I feel very safe and, looking up, the scenery on the mountain is really amazing. Then, we would walk for another 5 minutes to reach the UFO observation deck. You could see the most beautiful scenery on one side of the canyon, including the Nine Heavens Waterfall. Fully enclosed cable car in Dragon King Cableway Cable car route: Take the cable car from the entrance to the bottom of the observation deck. Then, you could walk for about 15 minutes to reach the observation deck. This cable car is called the Ruyi Peak Cableway, which takes approximately 20 minutes. This is a semi-enclosed cableway. Cable cars generally do not require queuing, except during Chinese public holidays, such as the first week of October. Other Highlights in Shilin Gorge In addition to the UFO glass observation deck, there are other attractions in Shilinxia, such as Shilin Canyon and Shilin Waterfall. Here are some tips for getting around. Stone Forest Gorge Grand Canyon The highlights of Shilin Gorge Grand Canyon include strange rocks and pine trees, steep cliffs, and lush forests. You would see unusual features, such as a fairy sitting on a stone or a stone painted with a squirrel or a pattern of Chinese characters for happiness. A stone painted with a squirrel The Chinese character "Fu" means happiness There are many trails in the canyon and you could choose routes of different lengths according to your personal physical strength. The longest trail time is about 2½ hours and the shortest time trail is about 1 hour. Stone Forest Gorge Waterfall Located deep in the canyon, the waterfall takes about 2 hours to reach on foot, but the scenery along the way is worth a visit. My personal suggestion is that after you check your tickets and go inside, you could pass through the first cable car entrance and go directly alongside the river. You would see Xiagu Stone. Xiagu Stone is a beautiful stone carving. There is a sad story behind Xiagu Stone. Continuing up the mountain road, you would see Baoyue Lake, where there are some small fish and children could catch them in the water. It's really lovely. After passing a few bays, what appears in front of you is a long and steep ladder to the sky. This staircase has over 270 steps in total, and each step is not easy to walk on. Every time I walk up these steps, I feel like my life path is soaring like a cloud. At this point, you would feel very tired but the surprises are constant. You would see waterfalls flowing in the sky with colorful stones distributed in every shape. This is the best way to get to Stone Forest Gorge Waterfall. Best Times to Visit Shilin Gorge I think the best times to visit Shilin Gorge are in spring (March to May) and autumn (late September to late November). The mountain is full of flowers in spring and full of red leaves in autumn. These seasons are the favorites of photography enthusiasts and are also my favorite seasons. Shilin Gorge in spring In winter (December to February), Shilin Gorge is covered with white snow as if it has become a fantasy world. The peak season is from May to October. During the peak season in Shilin Gorge, you could enjoy more activities. The atmosphere of the scenic area is livelier and the opening hours would be longer. You could fully explore the beauty and charm of Shilin Gorge. The low season is from November to April. There are relatively few tourists so there is no need to worry about overcrowding. You could easily appreciate the natural and cultural landscapes of the scenic area. You could learn more weather information on Best Times to Visit Beijing. How to Get to Shilin Gorge from Beijing You don't need to worry about traffic. The transportation from Beijing to Shilin is relatively convenient and the following methods are recommended. Self-driving: In my opinion, driving yourself is the most popular way. Start from downtown Beijing, drive along the Jingcheng Expressway to Pinggu District, and then follow the signs to Shilin. The whole journey takes about 1½ hours. Public transportation: You could take the subway to the Pinggu Line, then transfer to a bus or take a taxi to Shilin Gorge. The whole process takes about 3 hours. If you want a fast and convenient way to get from Beijing to Shilin Gorge, you could consider our private tour. We would arrange a private car and local guide for you. Just contact us. Is It Okay to Go Back and Forth to Beijing in 1 Day? Yes, I think it is possible to complete a round trip from Beijing to Shilinxia in one day, but the time is relatively tight. I usually arrange for guests to gather and depart at 7:30am, and arrive at Shilin Gorge before 10am. I would remind my guests to take some food and water to replenish their energy. This is because our lunchtime would be at about 2pm at a nearby farmhouse. We would finish and arrive at the hotel before 6pm. Other Useful Tips to Make Your Trip More Fun • I suggest that you wear comfortable sports shoes for easy walking. • The observation deck is transparent so please be cautious if you are afraid of heights. The observation deck is transparent • You could take knee pads, hiking poles, chocolate bars, nuts, and water. It would make your hiking tour much easier. • I suggest you try to buy a package ticket, which could save you some money. A package ticket for Shilin Gorge includes an admission ticket, a cable car ticket, and an observation platform ticket, totaling 220 yuan. One ticket could save 40 yuan. For a family of four, it could save 160 yuan. What Attractions Can Be Visited with Shilin Gorge? There are also some attractions around Shilin Gorge that are worth visiting, such as Jinhai Lake and Jingdong Grand Canyon. These could be combined with Shilin Gorge to form a day tour or a weekend tour. During the season of receiving goods, you could go to a farmhouse yard to pick some fresh fruits as this area is famous for peaches and hawthorns. If you feel that one day is not enough, you could stay in a farmhouse and experience rural life. Hopefully, this information will help you plan your trip to Stone Forest Gorge better. You could explore various intriguing attractions in our Beijing tours.