ID: 6f7bf43eac0e7705
Title: 2-Hour Cooking Cold Noodles and Wolf-teeth Potato in Chengdu Local Family
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chengdu/2-hour-cold-noodles-cooking-class.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ No worry if you don't understand Mandarin, this cooking class is conducted by an English-speaking chef, a true foodie and a fan of cooking. Teaching you to cook 2 famous Sichuan dishes — cold noddles and wolf-teeth potatos. Also You can learn some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine from the chef. Join us, let's enjoy our hand-made food together! Tour Highlights Going to a local family's home to learn how to make Sichuan's famous snacks. English-speaking chef will teach you how to make them hand by hand. All the materials needed in the cooking class are included. Enjoy your own handmade food and experience the fun of it.. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email adress or mobile number is correct. 19:30 - 19:45 PMMeet the chef and introduce each other The chef will be waiting you at the kitchen where is at Shangshun Upper Street near the Broad and Narrow Alley, Qingyang District, Chengdu at 19:30 PM. You need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then introduce and familiar with each other with a cup of flower tea. Wolf-teeth potatos Note: If you have any food preference such as vegetarian, please note to us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 19:45 – 21:00 PMCooking session Start to cook cold noodle and fry wolf-teeth potato under chef's instruction. Chef will teach you to use the most authentic cooking method ( Zigong cuisine) which you can't learn this cooking method in any other cooking class. The process of making food Cutting green onion Good to Know: Zigong City is located in the southeast of Sichuan Province, known as the Millennium Salt City and famous for its salt cuisines. These two special snacks we will make are mainly spicy, if you do n't eat spicy please tell the chef. Side dishes You'll also learn how to make chili oil which is a spicy Chinese sauce to go with the cold noddle and fry potatos while learning some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine. Stirring seasoning and potatoes Completed cold noodles 21:00 — 21:30 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, enjoy the party of your hand-made cold noodles and wolf-teeth potato together and share your feelings of the food! Finish your production Taste cold noodles Share Your Experiences We encourage you to share your happy experiences of the day with friends on Facebook or via TripAdvisor. This gives more people the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Chengdu. Follow us on our Facebook page Price Include: Group up to 6 people. Cooking class fee. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Gratuities. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. No worry if you don't understand Mandarin, this cooking class is conducted by an English-speaking chef, a true foodie and a fan of cooking. Teaching you to cook 2 famous Sichuan dishes — cold noddles and wolf-teeth potatos. Also You can learn some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine from the chef. Join us, let's enjoy our hand-made food together! No worry if you don't understand Mandarin, this cooking class is conducted by an English-speaking chef, a true foodie and a fan of cooking. Teaching you to cook 2 famous Sichuan dishes — cold noddles and wolf-teeth potatos. Also You can learn some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine from the chef. Join us, let's enjoy our hand-made food together! Tour Highlights Going to a local family's home to learn how to make Sichuan's famous snacks. English-speaking chef will teach you how to make them hand by hand. All the materials needed in the cooking class are included. Enjoy your own handmade food and experience the fun of it.. • Going to a local family's home to learn how to make Sichuan's famous snacks. • English-speaking chef will teach you how to make them hand by hand. • All the materials needed in the cooking class are included. • Enjoy your own handmade food and experience the fun of it.. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email adress or mobile number is correct. 19:30 - 19:45 PMMeet the chef and introduce each other The chef will be waiting you at the kitchen where is at Shangshun Upper Street near the Broad and Narrow Alley, Qingyang District, Chengdu at 19:30 PM. You need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then introduce and familiar with each other with a cup of flower tea. Wolf-teeth potatos Note: If you have any food preference such as vegetarian, please note to us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 19:45 – 21:00 PMCooking session Start to cook cold noodle and fry wolf-teeth potato under chef's instruction. Chef will teach you to use the most authentic cooking method ( Zigong cuisine) which you can't learn this cooking method in any other cooking class. The process of making food Cutting green onion Good to Know: Zigong City is located in the southeast of Sichuan Province, known as the Millennium Salt City and famous for its salt cuisines. These two special snacks we will make are mainly spicy, if you do n't eat spicy please tell the chef. Side dishes You'll also learn how to make chili oil which is a spicy Chinese sauce to go with the cold noddle and fry potatos while learning some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine. Stirring seasoning and potatoes Completed cold noodles 21:00 — 21:30 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, enjoy the party of your hand-made cold noodles and wolf-teeth potato together and share your feelings of the food! Finish your production Taste cold noodles Share Your Experiences We encourage you to share your happy experiences of the day with friends on Facebook or via TripAdvisor. This gives more people the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Chengdu. Follow us on our Facebook page Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email adress or mobile number is correct. 19:30 - 19:45 PMMeet the chef and introduce each other The chef will be waiting you at the kitchen where is at Shangshun Upper Street near the Broad and Narrow Alley, Qingyang District, Chengdu at 19:30 PM. You need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then introduce and familiar with each other with a cup of flower tea. Wolf-teeth potatos Note: If you have any food preference such as vegetarian, please note to us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 19:45 – 21:00 PMCooking session Start to cook cold noodle and fry wolf-teeth potato under chef's instruction. Chef will teach you to use the most authentic cooking method ( Zigong cuisine) which you can't learn this cooking method in any other cooking class. The process of making food Cutting green onion Good to Know: Zigong City is located in the southeast of Sichuan Province, known as the Millennium Salt City and famous for its salt cuisines. These two special snacks we will make are mainly spicy, if you do n't eat spicy please tell the chef. Side dishes You'll also learn how to make chili oil which is a spicy Chinese sauce to go with the cold noddle and fry potatos while learning some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine. Stirring seasoning and potatoes Completed cold noodles 21:00 — 21:30 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, enjoy the party of your hand-made cold noodles and wolf-teeth potato together and share your feelings of the food! Finish your production Taste cold noodles Share Your Experiences We encourage you to share your happy experiences of the day with friends on Facebook or via TripAdvisor. This gives more people the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Chengdu. Follow us on our Facebook page The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email adress or mobile number is correct. The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email adress or mobile number is correct. You'll receive a confirmation email/message from us one day before your tour date about the exact meeting time, detail address of the kitchen and contact details of the chef for the next day's experience. Please confirm you email adress or mobile number is correct. 19:30 - 19:45 PMMeet the chef and introduce each other The chef will be waiting you at the kitchen where is at Shangshun Upper Street near the Broad and Narrow Alley, Qingyang District, Chengdu at 19:30 PM. You need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then introduce and familiar with each other with a cup of flower tea. Wolf-teeth potatos Note: If you have any food preference such as vegetarian, please note to us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 19:30 - 19:45 PMMeet the chef and introduce each other The chef will be waiting you at the kitchen where is at Shangshun Upper Street near the Broad and Narrow Alley, Qingyang District, Chengdu at 19:30 PM. You need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then introduce and familiar with each other with a cup of flower tea. Wolf-teeth potatos Note: If you have any food preference such as vegetarian, please note to us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. The chef will be waiting you at the kitchen where is at Shangshun Upper Street near the Broad and Narrow Alley, Qingyang District, Chengdu at 19:30 PM. You need to go find the meeting location by yourself. Then introduce and familiar with each other with a cup of flower tea. Note: If you have any food preference such as vegetarian, please note to us at the time of booking. • Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 19:45 – 21:00 PMCooking session Start to cook cold noodle and fry wolf-teeth potato under chef's instruction. Chef will teach you to use the most authentic cooking method ( Zigong cuisine) which you can't learn this cooking method in any other cooking class. The process of making food Cutting green onion Good to Know: Zigong City is located in the southeast of Sichuan Province, known as the Millennium Salt City and famous for its salt cuisines. These two special snacks we will make are mainly spicy, if you do n't eat spicy please tell the chef. Side dishes You'll also learn how to make chili oil which is a spicy Chinese sauce to go with the cold noddle and fry potatos while learning some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine. Stirring seasoning and potatoes Completed cold noodles 19:45 – 21:00 PMCooking session Start to cook cold noodle and fry wolf-teeth potato under chef's instruction. Chef will teach you to use the most authentic cooking method ( Zigong cuisine) which you can't learn this cooking method in any other cooking class. The process of making food Cutting green onion Good to Know: Zigong City is located in the southeast of Sichuan Province, known as the Millennium Salt City and famous for its salt cuisines. These two special snacks we will make are mainly spicy, if you do n't eat spicy please tell the chef. Side dishes You'll also learn how to make chili oil which is a spicy Chinese sauce to go with the cold noddle and fry potatos while learning some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine. Stirring seasoning and potatoes Completed cold noodles Start to cook cold noodle and fry wolf-teeth potato under chef's instruction. Chef will teach you to use the most authentic cooking method ( Zigong cuisine) which you can't learn this cooking method in any other cooking class. The process of making food • Zigong City is located in the southeast of Sichuan Province, known as the Millennium Salt City and famous for its salt cuisines. • These two special snacks we will make are mainly spicy, if you do n't eat spicy please tell the chef. You'll also learn how to make chili oil which is a spicy Chinese sauce to go with the cold noddle and fry potatos while learning some culture and characteristics of Sichuan and Zigong cuisine. Stirring seasoning and potatoes Completed cold noodles 21:00 — 21:30 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, enjoy the party of your hand-made cold noodles and wolf-teeth potato together and share your feelings of the food! Finish your production Taste cold noodles Share Your Experiences We encourage you to share your happy experiences of the day with friends on Facebook or via TripAdvisor. This gives more people the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Chengdu. Follow us on our Facebook page 21:00 — 21:30 AMEnjoy the meal with the class. Finally, enjoy the party of your hand-made cold noodles and wolf-teeth potato together and share your feelings of the food! Finish your production Taste cold noodles Share Your Experiences We encourage you to share your happy experiences of the day with friends on Facebook or via TripAdvisor. This gives more people the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Chengdu. Follow us on our Facebook page Finally, enjoy the party of your hand-made cold noodles and wolf-teeth potato together and share your feelings of the food! Finish your production Share Your Experiences • We encourage you to share your happy experiences of the day with friends on Facebook or via TripAdvisor. This gives more people the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Chengdu. Follow us on our Facebook page Price Include: Group up to 6 people. Cooking class fee. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Gratuities. Price Include: Group up to 6 people. Cooking class fee. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Gratuities. Price Include: Group up to 6 people. Cooking class fee. Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Gratuities. • Group up to 6 people. • Cooking class fee. • Friendly and passionate English-speaking chef. • Complimentary tea. • Hotel pick-up and drop-off. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 42 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 42 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 42 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20