ID: 329fe284ff73b4fc
Title: Half-Day Chengdu Pandas Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chengdu/half-day-chengdu-pandas-hot-pot-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ As the most well-known and adorable residents in Chengdu, pandas are always the most looked-forward-to and eye-catching superstars. For animal lovers, you can't miss the chance to immerse yourself in the pandas' world and learn fascinating insights about their behavior and history as well as some fun facts. With our carefully-designed half-day tour, you'll enjoy spending time with these black and white bears, exploring the local cuisine-rich culture and the laid-back lifestyle, and having a tasty hot pot. Tour Highlights Visit the adorable pandas, and more! Taste hot pot in a restaurant without too much crowding. No shopping, no tricks, no queuing… mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the city. Free hotel pick-up and drop-off. No more worries about the complicated traffic system in Chengdu. A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! Connect seamlessly with your onward train or flight. Detailed Itinerary Close All A Welcome Call Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:00 AM - 8:40 AM Hotel Pickup and Drive to Chengdu Panda Base You will find your guide waiting for you at a previously agreed place, which is usually your hotel's lobby, at an appointed time. For easy recognition, your guide will be holding a Trippest banner and your name. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng You will then link up with your group, which will have a maximum of ten members. This mini group tour is good for you to have a better experience. After collecting all of your group members, you will head to your first destination where you will have the opportunity to see giant pandas. Chengdu Panda Base Good to Know: We don't provide activities where you can touch pandas, such as holding pandas or joining volunteer programs. Pandas are lively in the morning. Therefore, you will leave your hotel half an hour earlier to see the liveliest pandas during the day if you visit the Chengdu breeding base. Keep a safe distance from the pandas during the visit. Don't cross over the fences. Take note that you will only receive free transportation if you reside within Chengdu's three ring roads. To ensure professionalism and safety, Trippest only employs drivers with over 5 years of experience. We do not use vehicles that are more than 5 years old and all of our vehicles undergo regular inspections. The vehicles are also insured and air-conditioned. We ensure your safety by equipping the vehicles with working safety belts. In addition, we offer unlimited bottled water. All you need to do is inform your travel consultant if you have any special needs with regard to the tour and the matter will be catered to. 9:00 AM –11:00 AM Visit Pandas Our trips are designed to make sure that you enjoy a good day without wasting any time so you can spend more time with these cute pandas. Staring at them and not having to do anything alone ensures you have a delightful time. Enjoy the peaceful time available with the pandas and commit the experience to memory by taking photos and videos. The Giant Panda At the panda base Good to Know: Carry a long lens if you want detailed pictures of the giant pandas. Keep in mind that you mustn't use your flash when taking photos. Because panda's eyes are very sensitive to light. You should also resist the urge to feed the pandas. They have their own nutrition recipes. Your food is not good for them. Don't shout at the pandas, no matter how excited you are. They just don't like to being disturbed. 11:00 AM – 1:00 PM Return to Chengdu Downtown Say goodbye to these cute babies. We are off to downtown of Chengdu city. The rest of time will be on your own arrangement. Lunch is not included. If you are a foodie, I highly recommend you to try the most popular local food in Chengdu - Hotpot, and other snacks like noodles, Mapo Tofu, Chengdu pancakes, etc. Your guide would love to help you with ordering food, introduce Chengdu cuisines culture and show you the process of eating hotpot. You will be arranged to enjoy lunch with local people so that you can understand more about the local culture and lifestyle. Don't worry if you are not a fan of spicy food as the tour guide can recommend other dishes for you to eat. If you want to skip the lunch, you will be transferred back to your hotel or dropped you at downtown then you can make the arrangements on your own for the rest of the day. Hot-pot in Chengdu Good to Know: You'll find that there are many people queueing up for seats during lunchtime but we will try to make a reservation in advance to avoid wasting your precious time. Your tour guide will not accompany you till you finish the lunch. You need to arrange your own transportation back to your hotel or onward trip. Don't panic, the tour guide will tell you the best route before he/she leaves. OptionalTransfer to the Train Station/Airport We also offer additional transfer services between your hotel and Chengdu airport/train station. You can click HERE to book transfer service or to learn more about it. Don't forget to inform us before you travel to ensure perfect connections during your trip. Good to Know: If you wish to take a flight out of Chengdu, we advise you to book it after 5pm so that you have enough time to get to the airport. If you wish to take a train out of Chengdu, we advise that you book a train departing after 4pm. This will ensure that you enjoy your activities without fear of missing the train. After your trip, you can share your experiences on Facebook or TripAdvisor. We wish you a pleasant journey in Chengdu! Price Include: Admission to Panda bases. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. Price Exclude: Hotpot lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. As the most well-known and adorable residents in Chengdu, pandas are always the most looked-forward-to and eye-catching superstars. For animal lovers, you can't miss the chance to immerse yourself in the pandas' world and learn fascinating insights about their behavior and history as well as some fun facts. With our carefully-designed half-day tour, you'll enjoy spending time with these black and white bears, exploring the local cuisine-rich culture and the laid-back lifestyle, and having a tasty hot pot. As the most well-known and adorable residents in Chengdu, pandas are always the most looked-forward-to and eye-catching superstars. For animal lovers, you can't miss the chance to immerse yourself in the pandas' world and learn fascinating insights about their behavior and history as well as some fun facts. With our carefully-designed half-day tour, you'll enjoy spending time with these black and white bears, exploring the local cuisine-rich culture and the laid-back lifestyle, and having a tasty hot pot. Tour Highlights Visit the adorable pandas, and more! Taste hot pot in a restaurant without too much crowding. No shopping, no tricks, no queuing… mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the city. Free hotel pick-up and drop-off. No more worries about the complicated traffic system in Chengdu. A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! Connect seamlessly with your onward train or flight. • Visit the adorable pandas, and more! • Taste hot pot in a restaurant without too much crowding. • No shopping, no tricks, no queuing… mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the city. • Free hotel pick-up and drop-off. No more worries about the complicated traffic system in Chengdu. • A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! • Connect seamlessly with your onward train or flight. Detailed Itinerary Close All A Welcome Call Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:00 AM - 8:40 AM Hotel Pickup and Drive to Chengdu Panda Base You will find your guide waiting for you at a previously agreed place, which is usually your hotel's lobby, at an appointed time. For easy recognition, your guide will be holding a Trippest banner and your name. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng You will then link up with your group, which will have a maximum of ten members. This mini group tour is good for you to have a better experience. After collecting all of your group members, you will head to your first destination where you will have the opportunity to see giant pandas. Chengdu Panda Base Good to Know: We don't provide activities where you can touch pandas, such as holding pandas or joining volunteer programs. Pandas are lively in the morning. Therefore, you will leave your hotel half an hour earlier to see the liveliest pandas during the day if you visit the Chengdu breeding base. Keep a safe distance from the pandas during the visit. Don't cross over the fences. Take note that you will only receive free transportation if you reside within Chengdu's three ring roads. To ensure professionalism and safety, Trippest only employs drivers with over 5 years of experience. We do not use vehicles that are more than 5 years old and all of our vehicles undergo regular inspections. The vehicles are also insured and air-conditioned. We ensure your safety by equipping the vehicles with working safety belts. In addition, we offer unlimited bottled water. All you need to do is inform your travel consultant if you have any special needs with regard to the tour and the matter will be catered to. 9:00 AM –11:00 AM Visit Pandas Our trips are designed to make sure that you enjoy a good day without wasting any time so you can spend more time with these cute pandas. Staring at them and not having to do anything alone ensures you have a delightful time. Enjoy the peaceful time available with the pandas and commit the experience to memory by taking photos and videos. The Giant Panda At the panda base Good to Know: Carry a long lens if you want detailed pictures of the giant pandas. Keep in mind that you mustn't use your flash when taking photos. Because panda's eyes are very sensitive to light. You should also resist the urge to feed the pandas. They have their own nutrition recipes. Your food is not good for them. Don't shout at the pandas, no matter how excited you are. They just don't like to being disturbed. 11:00 AM – 1:00 PM Return to Chengdu Downtown Say goodbye to these cute babies. We are off to downtown of Chengdu city. The rest of time will be on your own arrangement. Lunch is not included. If you are a foodie, I highly recommend you to try the most popular local food in Chengdu - Hotpot, and other snacks like noodles, Mapo Tofu, Chengdu pancakes, etc. Your guide would love to help you with ordering food, introduce Chengdu cuisines culture and show you the process of eating hotpot. You will be arranged to enjoy lunch with local people so that you can understand more about the local culture and lifestyle. Don't worry if you are not a fan of spicy food as the tour guide can recommend other dishes for you to eat. If you want to skip the lunch, you will be transferred back to your hotel or dropped you at downtown then you can make the arrangements on your own for the rest of the day. Hot-pot in Chengdu Good to Know: You'll find that there are many people queueing up for seats during lunchtime but we will try to make a reservation in advance to avoid wasting your precious time. Your tour guide will not accompany you till you finish the lunch. You need to arrange your own transportation back to your hotel or onward trip. Don't panic, the tour guide will tell you the best route before he/she leaves. OptionalTransfer to the Train Station/Airport We also offer additional transfer services between your hotel and Chengdu airport/train station. You can click HERE to book transfer service or to learn more about it. Don't forget to inform us before you travel to ensure perfect connections during your trip. Good to Know: If you wish to take a flight out of Chengdu, we advise you to book it after 5pm so that you have enough time to get to the airport. If you wish to take a train out of Chengdu, we advise that you book a train departing after 4pm. This will ensure that you enjoy your activities without fear of missing the train. After your trip, you can share your experiences on Facebook or TripAdvisor. We wish you a pleasant journey in Chengdu! Close All A Welcome Call Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:00 AM - 8:40 AM Hotel Pickup and Drive to Chengdu Panda Base You will find your guide waiting for you at a previously agreed place, which is usually your hotel's lobby, at an appointed time. For easy recognition, your guide will be holding a Trippest banner and your name. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng You will then link up with your group, which will have a maximum of ten members. This mini group tour is good for you to have a better experience. After collecting all of your group members, you will head to your first destination where you will have the opportunity to see giant pandas. Chengdu Panda Base Good to Know: We don't provide activities where you can touch pandas, such as holding pandas or joining volunteer programs. Pandas are lively in the morning. Therefore, you will leave your hotel half an hour earlier to see the liveliest pandas during the day if you visit the Chengdu breeding base. Keep a safe distance from the pandas during the visit. Don't cross over the fences. Take note that you will only receive free transportation if you reside within Chengdu's three ring roads. To ensure professionalism and safety, Trippest only employs drivers with over 5 years of experience. We do not use vehicles that are more than 5 years old and all of our vehicles undergo regular inspections. The vehicles are also insured and air-conditioned. We ensure your safety by equipping the vehicles with working safety belts. In addition, we offer unlimited bottled water. All you need to do is inform your travel consultant if you have any special needs with regard to the tour and the matter will be catered to. 9:00 AM –11:00 AM Visit Pandas Our trips are designed to make sure that you enjoy a good day without wasting any time so you can spend more time with these cute pandas. Staring at them and not having to do anything alone ensures you have a delightful time. Enjoy the peaceful time available with the pandas and commit the experience to memory by taking photos and videos. The Giant Panda At the panda base Good to Know: Carry a long lens if you want detailed pictures of the giant pandas. Keep in mind that you mustn't use your flash when taking photos. Because panda's eyes are very sensitive to light. You should also resist the urge to feed the pandas. They have their own nutrition recipes. Your food is not good for them. Don't shout at the pandas, no matter how excited you are. They just don't like to being disturbed. 11:00 AM – 1:00 PM Return to Chengdu Downtown Say goodbye to these cute babies. We are off to downtown of Chengdu city. The rest of time will be on your own arrangement. Lunch is not included. If you are a foodie, I highly recommend you to try the most popular local food in Chengdu - Hotpot, and other snacks like noodles, Mapo Tofu, Chengdu pancakes, etc. Your guide would love to help you with ordering food, introduce Chengdu cuisines culture and show you the process of eating hotpot. You will be arranged to enjoy lunch with local people so that you can understand more about the local culture and lifestyle. Don't worry if you are not a fan of spicy food as the tour guide can recommend other dishes for you to eat. If you want to skip the lunch, you will be transferred back to your hotel or dropped you at downtown then you can make the arrangements on your own for the rest of the day. Hot-pot in Chengdu Good to Know: You'll find that there are many people queueing up for seats during lunchtime but we will try to make a reservation in advance to avoid wasting your precious time. Your tour guide will not accompany you till you finish the lunch. You need to arrange your own transportation back to your hotel or onward trip. Don't panic, the tour guide will tell you the best route before he/she leaves. OptionalTransfer to the Train Station/Airport We also offer additional transfer services between your hotel and Chengdu airport/train station. You can click HERE to book transfer service or to learn more about it. Don't forget to inform us before you travel to ensure perfect connections during your trip. Good to Know: If you wish to take a flight out of Chengdu, we advise you to book it after 5pm so that you have enough time to get to the airport. If you wish to take a train out of Chengdu, we advise that you book a train departing after 4pm. This will ensure that you enjoy your activities without fear of missing the train. After your trip, you can share your experiences on Facebook or TripAdvisor. We wish you a pleasant journey in Chengdu! A Welcome Call Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. A Welcome Call Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 7:00 AM - 8:40 AM Hotel Pickup and Drive to Chengdu Panda Base You will find your guide waiting for you at a previously agreed place, which is usually your hotel's lobby, at an appointed time. For easy recognition, your guide will be holding a Trippest banner and your name. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng You will then link up with your group, which will have a maximum of ten members. This mini group tour is good for you to have a better experience. After collecting all of your group members, you will head to your first destination where you will have the opportunity to see giant pandas. Chengdu Panda Base Good to Know: We don't provide activities where you can touch pandas, such as holding pandas or joining volunteer programs. Pandas are lively in the morning. Therefore, you will leave your hotel half an hour earlier to see the liveliest pandas during the day if you visit the Chengdu breeding base. Keep a safe distance from the pandas during the visit. Don't cross over the fences. Take note that you will only receive free transportation if you reside within Chengdu's three ring roads. To ensure professionalism and safety, Trippest only employs drivers with over 5 years of experience. We do not use vehicles that are more than 5 years old and all of our vehicles undergo regular inspections. The vehicles are also insured and air-conditioned. We ensure your safety by equipping the vehicles with working safety belts. In addition, we offer unlimited bottled water. All you need to do is inform your travel consultant if you have any special needs with regard to the tour and the matter will be catered to. 7:00 AM - 8:40 AM Hotel Pickup and Drive to Chengdu Panda Base You will find your guide waiting for you at a previously agreed place, which is usually your hotel's lobby, at an appointed time. For easy recognition, your guide will be holding a Trippest banner and your name. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng You will then link up with your group, which will have a maximum of ten members. This mini group tour is good for you to have a better experience. After collecting all of your group members, you will head to your first destination where you will have the opportunity to see giant pandas. Chengdu Panda Base Good to Know: We don't provide activities where you can touch pandas, such as holding pandas or joining volunteer programs. Pandas are lively in the morning. Therefore, you will leave your hotel half an hour earlier to see the liveliest pandas during the day if you visit the Chengdu breeding base. Keep a safe distance from the pandas during the visit. Don't cross over the fences. Take note that you will only receive free transportation if you reside within Chengdu's three ring roads. To ensure professionalism and safety, Trippest only employs drivers with over 5 years of experience. We do not use vehicles that are more than 5 years old and all of our vehicles undergo regular inspections. The vehicles are also insured and air-conditioned. We ensure your safety by equipping the vehicles with working safety belts. In addition, we offer unlimited bottled water. All you need to do is inform your travel consultant if you have any special needs with regard to the tour and the matter will be catered to. You will find your guide waiting for you at a previously agreed place, which is usually your hotel's lobby, at an appointed time. For easy recognition, your guide will be holding a Trippest banner and your name. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng You will then link up with your group, which will have a maximum of ten members. This mini group tour is good for you to have a better experience. After collecting all of your group members, you will head to your first destination where you will have the opportunity to see giant pandas. • We don't provide activities where you can touch pandas, such as holding pandas or joining volunteer programs. • Pandas are lively in the morning. Therefore, you will leave your hotel half an hour earlier to see the liveliest pandas during the day if you visit the Chengdu breeding base. • Keep a safe distance from the pandas during the visit. Don't cross over the fences. • Take note that you will only receive free transportation if you reside within Chengdu's three ring roads. • To ensure professionalism and safety, Trippest only employs drivers with over 5 years of experience. • We do not use vehicles that are more than 5 years old and all of our vehicles undergo regular inspections. The vehicles are also insured and air-conditioned. • We ensure your safety by equipping the vehicles with working safety belts. In addition, we offer unlimited bottled water. All you need to do is inform your travel consultant if you have any special needs with regard to the tour and the matter will be catered to. 9:00 AM –11:00 AM Visit Pandas Our trips are designed to make sure that you enjoy a good day without wasting any time so you can spend more time with these cute pandas. Staring at them and not having to do anything alone ensures you have a delightful time. Enjoy the peaceful time available with the pandas and commit the experience to memory by taking photos and videos. The Giant Panda At the panda base Good to Know: Carry a long lens if you want detailed pictures of the giant pandas. Keep in mind that you mustn't use your flash when taking photos. Because panda's eyes are very sensitive to light. You should also resist the urge to feed the pandas. They have their own nutrition recipes. Your food is not good for them. Don't shout at the pandas, no matter how excited you are. They just don't like to being disturbed. 9:00 AM –11:00 AM Visit Pandas Our trips are designed to make sure that you enjoy a good day without wasting any time so you can spend more time with these cute pandas. Staring at them and not having to do anything alone ensures you have a delightful time. Enjoy the peaceful time available with the pandas and commit the experience to memory by taking photos and videos. The Giant Panda At the panda base Good to Know: Carry a long lens if you want detailed pictures of the giant pandas. Keep in mind that you mustn't use your flash when taking photos. Because panda's eyes are very sensitive to light. You should also resist the urge to feed the pandas. They have their own nutrition recipes. Your food is not good for them. Don't shout at the pandas, no matter how excited you are. They just don't like to being disturbed. Our trips are designed to make sure that you enjoy a good day without wasting any time so you can spend more time with these cute pandas. Staring at them and not having to do anything alone ensures you have a delightful time. Enjoy the peaceful time available with the pandas and commit the experience to memory by taking photos and videos. • Carry a long lens if you want detailed pictures of the giant pandas. Keep in mind that you mustn't use your flash when taking photos. Because panda's eyes are very sensitive to light. • You should also resist the urge to feed the pandas. They have their own nutrition recipes. Your food is not good for them. • Don't shout at the pandas, no matter how excited you are. They just don't like to being disturbed. 11:00 AM – 1:00 PM Return to Chengdu Downtown Say goodbye to these cute babies. We are off to downtown of Chengdu city. The rest of time will be on your own arrangement. Lunch is not included. If you are a foodie, I highly recommend you to try the most popular local food in Chengdu - Hotpot, and other snacks like noodles, Mapo Tofu, Chengdu pancakes, etc. Your guide would love to help you with ordering food, introduce Chengdu cuisines culture and show you the process of eating hotpot. You will be arranged to enjoy lunch with local people so that you can understand more about the local culture and lifestyle. Don't worry if you are not a fan of spicy food as the tour guide can recommend other dishes for you to eat. If you want to skip the lunch, you will be transferred back to your hotel or dropped you at downtown then you can make the arrangements on your own for the rest of the day. Hot-pot in Chengdu Good to Know: You'll find that there are many people queueing up for seats during lunchtime but we will try to make a reservation in advance to avoid wasting your precious time. Your tour guide will not accompany you till you finish the lunch. You need to arrange your own transportation back to your hotel or onward trip. Don't panic, the tour guide will tell you the best route before he/she leaves. 11:00 AM – 1:00 PM Return to Chengdu Downtown Say goodbye to these cute babies. We are off to downtown of Chengdu city. The rest of time will be on your own arrangement. Lunch is not included. If you are a foodie, I highly recommend you to try the most popular local food in Chengdu - Hotpot, and other snacks like noodles, Mapo Tofu, Chengdu pancakes, etc. Your guide would love to help you with ordering food, introduce Chengdu cuisines culture and show you the process of eating hotpot. You will be arranged to enjoy lunch with local people so that you can understand more about the local culture and lifestyle. Don't worry if you are not a fan of spicy food as the tour guide can recommend other dishes for you to eat. If you want to skip the lunch, you will be transferred back to your hotel or dropped you at downtown then you can make the arrangements on your own for the rest of the day. Hot-pot in Chengdu Good to Know: You'll find that there are many people queueing up for seats during lunchtime but we will try to make a reservation in advance to avoid wasting your precious time. Your tour guide will not accompany you till you finish the lunch. You need to arrange your own transportation back to your hotel or onward trip. Don't panic, the tour guide will tell you the best route before he/she leaves. Say goodbye to these cute babies. We are off to downtown of Chengdu city. The rest of time will be on your own arrangement. Lunch is not included. If you are a foodie, I highly recommend you to try the most popular local food in Chengdu - Hotpot, and other snacks like noodles, Mapo Tofu, Chengdu pancakes, etc. Your guide would love to help you with ordering food, introduce Chengdu cuisines culture and show you the process of eating hotpot. You will be arranged to enjoy lunch with local people so that you can understand more about the local culture and lifestyle. Don't worry if you are not a fan of spicy food as the tour guide can recommend other dishes for you to eat. If you want to skip the lunch, you will be transferred back to your hotel or dropped you at downtown then you can make the arrangements on your own for the rest of the day. • You'll find that there are many people queueing up for seats during lunchtime but we will try to make a reservation in advance to avoid wasting your precious time. • Your tour guide will not accompany you till you finish the lunch. You need to arrange your own transportation back to your hotel or onward trip. Don't panic, the tour guide will tell you the best route before he/she leaves. OptionalTransfer to the Train Station/Airport We also offer additional transfer services between your hotel and Chengdu airport/train station. You can click HERE to book transfer service or to learn more about it. Don't forget to inform us before you travel to ensure perfect connections during your trip. Good to Know: If you wish to take a flight out of Chengdu, we advise you to book it after 5pm so that you have enough time to get to the airport. If you wish to take a train out of Chengdu, we advise that you book a train departing after 4pm. This will ensure that you enjoy your activities without fear of missing the train. After your trip, you can share your experiences on Facebook or TripAdvisor. We wish you a pleasant journey in Chengdu! OptionalTransfer to the Train Station/Airport We also offer additional transfer services between your hotel and Chengdu airport/train station. You can click HERE to book transfer service or to learn more about it. Don't forget to inform us before you travel to ensure perfect connections during your trip. Good to Know: If you wish to take a flight out of Chengdu, we advise you to book it after 5pm so that you have enough time to get to the airport. If you wish to take a train out of Chengdu, we advise that you book a train departing after 4pm. This will ensure that you enjoy your activities without fear of missing the train. After your trip, you can share your experiences on Facebook or TripAdvisor. We wish you a pleasant journey in Chengdu! We also offer additional transfer services between your hotel and Chengdu airport/train station. You can click HERE to book transfer service or to learn more about it. Don't forget to inform us before you travel to ensure perfect connections during your trip. • If you wish to take a flight out of Chengdu, we advise you to book it after 5pm so that you have enough time to get to the airport. • If you wish to take a train out of Chengdu, we advise that you book a train departing after 4pm. This will ensure that you enjoy your activities without fear of missing the train. • After your trip, you can share your experiences on Facebook or TripAdvisor. We wish you a pleasant journey in Chengdu! Price Include: Admission to Panda bases. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. Price Exclude: Hotpot lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to Panda bases. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. Price Exclude: Hotpot lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to Panda bases. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. Price Exclude: Hotpot lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Admission to Panda bases. • Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. • English-speaking local guide service. • Hotpot lunch. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities to your tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the 3rd Ring Road of Chengdu. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Chengdu City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability (usually it is available ) or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service (for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 119 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 119 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 119 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20