ID: 3ffd1e48d4b0786c
Title: How to Visit Universal Studios Beijing: from Your Local Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/beijing/attraction/universal-studios.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Universal Studios Beijing is the first theme park under the Universal Studios brand in China, the third in Asia, and the fifth globally. There, you could find satisfaction in creating unforgettable memories. I find the park is vast to explore. Being one of the guests there, you would dive into one jaw-dropping adventure after another. However, due to its popularity, queueing could be a problem. Luckily enough, I can always trust the official app, which shows the time needed to wait. There, whether for individual entertainment or family reunions, you could find this place ideal for everything. At Universal Studios Beijing, your heroes are about to burst through the screen and yank you into the story. Go behind the scenes and jump into the action of your favorite movies at one of the world's premier theme parks. Ethan Liu 10+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hi, I'm Ethan. Beijing is where ancient history and modern vibrancy collide. My passion is to go beyond sightseeing, immersing you in the city's stories, culture, and heartbeat. Let's uncover the essence of Beijing together - an experience you'll never forget! 10+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hi, I'm Ethan. Beijing is where ancient history and modern vibrancy collide. My passion is to go beyond sightseeing, immersing you in the city's stories, culture, and heartbeat. Let's uncover the essence of Beijing together - an experience you'll never forget! • Unmissable Rides and Spectacular Shows • Ticket Buying Tips • How Long Is Needed? • Best Times • Dining Tips • Transportation • Difference with Universal Studios Singapore Unmissable Rides and Spectacular Shows When you pass the entrance of Universal Studios Beijing, you would discover the park is divided into different themed zones, offering thrilling rides, interactive shows, and entertainment for all ages. The Wizarding World of Harry Potter I personally consider The Wizarding World of Harry Potter to be a must-see for lovers of Harry Potter. When exploring Diagon Alley, you would want to try the famous Butterbeer for its localized flavor, feeling the magical vibe that's combined in the surroundings and the taste of special cuisines. Jurassic World Isla Nublar Next, it is recommended to step into Jurassic World Isla Nublar, featuring an exciting roller coaster as well as life-like dinosaur exhibits, which can show you everything you want to know about dinosaurs. It is said to welcome a renewal of the whole set of decorations. Enter a family-friendly area where you could enjoy the fun, chaotic world of Minion Land with interactive rides and experiences. Please be cautious and take care of your kids when it's crowded. Transformers Metrobase Transformers Metrobase Feel the adrenaline rush on exquisite rides that bring the Transformers universe to life in Transformers Metrobase. You could not only feel the thrills brought by the review of the movies but also experience a real-time interaction with the NPC in this area, which popped up recently on TikTok. Kung Fu Panda Land of Awesomeness Finally, you must not miss Kung Fu Panda Land of Awesomeness, which is a spectacular area full of Chinese culture and fun for all ages, based on the beloved Kung Fu Panda movies. You could also share a wonderful time with your family when touring around the scenes. Oh! Don't forget to wander along the street lined with a variety of restaurants and shops, and often hosting special events, Hollywood Boulevard, the area outside Universal Studios Beijing. It's a perfect spot to grab a bite, relax, or enjoy additional entertainment after a day inside the park. You're recommended to book tickets in advance to avoid long queues, especially during peak seasons. You could purchase tickets through the official Universal website or the WeChat Mini Program (in Chinese). You could also buy tickets through the Universal Beijing Resort Official App (for both Android and iOS), which is a convenient option for international visitors and enables you to avoid inefficient talk at the ticket counter. The options include a Regular Ticket, a Premium Pass, and a VIP service, and the prices for different tickets vary from 400 to 800 RMB. Prior tickets may grant you the opportunity to avoid long queues. Because of students' breaks, the park tends to be crowded during the winter (January and February) and summer vacation period (July and August). I suggest you plan your visit in advance and avoid the peak seasons to enjoy a better experience. How Long Is Needed: One Day or Two Days? A full day at Universal Studios Beijing could be overwhelming for some people. A day or two could both be acceptable according to your own agenda. For 1 day, if you buy a Regular Ticket, you may only be able to enjoy two or three exciting rides and you would spend more time wandering in different theme parks. However, if you buy a Premium Pass or a VIP service, you could enjoy the same rides multiple times. For 2 days, I suggest spending the night in a nearby hotel rather than a distant one in downtown Beijing. The Universal Studios Grand Hotel is located just a few minutes' walk from the main entrance of Universal Studios Beijing and it is the most convenient accommodation choice. Alternatively, you could choose Wanda Vista Beijing, although it is about 15 km (9 miles) away. The hotel offers a free shuttle service. If you are planning a trip to Beijing, you could find more ideas in our How to Plan A Trip to Beijing How to Arrange a Visit to Universal Studios Beijing For further information, the park opens at 9am. If you want to enjoy the popular attractions before other guests arrive, you need to arrive early. Early arrival sees less crowds. Also, please make good use of the Universal Beijing Resort Official App, which provides a digital map, real-time updates on wait times, schedules, dining options, and more information you may need to know. From my experience, the crowds are lighter in the morning in the most popular attractions, such as Transformers Metrobase and The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, so it's the perfect time to experience these iconic rides. For the afternoon, you could head to Jurassic World Isla Nublar and Kung Fu Panda Land of Awesomeness, which offer exciting rides and shows. Then, you could enjoy a more relaxed pace by exploring Minion Land, shopping for souvenirs, and watching live shows. Fun Land in Minion Land You could then enjoy a final visit to your favorite zone or catch a parade and light show if available in the evening. Universal Studios Beijing also hosts seasonal events and special attractions. You are recommended to visit during special days, as follows: Halloween Horror Nights are thrilling events for Halloween enthusiasts, containing abundant NPC working stuff with special dress codes. During Chinese New Year celebrations. These are a cultural symbol and are especially enjoyable in Universal Studios Beijing where traditional Chinese ideas are combined with modern views. If you want to experience Chinese festivals with unique shows, food, and decorations, going there during this time would be the perfect plan. Universal Studios Beijing also hosts seasonal events and special attractions. You are recommended to visit during special days, as follows: • Halloween Horror Nights are thrilling events for Halloween enthusiasts, containing abundant NPC working stuff with special dress codes. • During Chinese New Year celebrations. These are a cultural symbol and are especially enjoyable in Universal Studios Beijing where traditional Chinese ideas are combined with modern views. If you want to experience Chinese festivals with unique shows, food, and decorations, going there during this time would be the perfect plan. Make sure to check the Universal Beijing Resort Official App or website for any special events during your visit. If you want to include Universal Studios Beijing in your itinerary, feel free to contact us. Our tours are customized. Best Times to Visit Universal Studios Beijing The climate in Beijing in spring (March to May) is pleasant, especially in May. The weather is neither too hot nor too cold with a daytime temperature of about 25°C (77°F), which is very suitable for traveling. During this time, you could avoid the heat in summer and the cold in winter. Spring in Universal Studios Beijing Autumn (September to November) in Beijing is also beautiful, especially in October, with clear weather and moderate temperatures (about 20°C(68°F) in the daytime, making it very suitable for travel. I went to Universal Studios Beijing in early June and mid-December respectively. In early June in Beijing, the weather was hot and humid, and the temperature was about 37°C(99°F). The park was crowded but I bought a Lightning Pass, which made it much easier! Without one, you might have to wait for about an hour to queue normally. Queuing in this weather was really an ordeal and the experience was not very good. Early December is a time when many tourists visit with their annual cards, which results in large numbers of people in the park. It takes a long time to wait in line and it's hard to wait in the cold weather. If you visit in June or December, it is strongly suggested to buy a Lighting Pass. Check out more on Best Times to Visit Beijing Dining Tips for Universal Studios Beijing Throughout the park, you could spot various food carts offering snacks like popcorn, churros, and ice cream from street food stalls. On average, it would cost you 60 RMB per person. In the Jurassic World Eats region, on average, it would cost 120 RMB per person. You could try some dino-themed snacks, burgers, and refreshing beverages. This place is highly recommended by online users to feel the vibe dating back to the time when dinosaurs still existed. In the Harry Potter area, you could enjoy classic British dishes, such as fish and chips, shepherd's pie, and many more. This place is a trend among Chinese netizens nowadays for its unique beer-producing process. For drinks, you would find standard park options, such as soft drinks, tea, and coffee, and it would cost you 10 RMB in general. In Minion Munchies, children would find it fun as it features adorable Minion-themed food options like cupcakes and burgers. On some special occasions, you could capture some Minion images and get an invitation to experience the special activities held by the restaurant. In general, Universal Studios Beijing has an impressive variety of food and beverage options to suit different tastes for your comfortable stay. How to Get to Universal Studios Beijing Universal Studios Beijing is located in the Tongzhou District of the city, adjacent to the East 6th Ring Road and Beijing-Harbin Expressway. You could choose to drive there and, if you find it difficult to rent a car, you may contact us to learn more. From the downtown area, the distance is about 30 kilometers (19 miles) and the driving time is about 1 hour. Other than this, traveling by subway could also be an option. You need to take Line 7 to Universal Resort Station. The walking distance from the subway station to the park entrance would vary according to different subway lines and exits. Generally speaking, the walk from the nearest subway station to Universal Studios Beijing is 5–10 minutes. What's the Difference Between Universal Studios Beijing and Universal Studios Singapore? Universal Studios Beijing is five times bigger than Universal Studios Singapore. The seven exciting themed lands that have been unveiled include the first Kung Fu Panda Land of Awesomeness in Asia, the second Hogwarts Castle in Asia, as well as the largest Minion Land in the world. It could be even better if you could be there and give it a shot and I believe the excitement you experience wouldn't let you down. As a tour guide, I can tell you that localizing features could easily be captured in Universal Studios Beijing, which is a better tour choice to experience cultural differences and the amazing features of the Chinese mainland. You could click on Beijing Tours for more interesting attractions. We will plan an enjoyable itinerary for you based on your interests and needs.