ID: 49ec24c2c744f5fc
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Beijing and Guilin (2026)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-beijing-and-guilin.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Beijing and Guilin are must-visit cities for different aspects of China. As the ancient capital, Beijing is filled with historical buildings and authentic cultural experiences. Guilin is renowned throughout China for its superlative scenery of mountains and rivers. Guilin offers you the chance to immerse yourself in celebrated karst scenery through various engaging activities. Based in China with 26 years of experience specializing in tailor-made China tours, we know the challenges and absolute highlights of China travel, and we are committed to helping you plan a stress-free and memorable journey. • Top Things to Do in Beijing and Guilin • How Long Do You Need in Beijing and Guilin • A Classic Beijing and Guilin Itinerary • How Much Does a Trip to Beijing and Guilin Cost • Best Times to Visit Beijing and Guilin • Where to Stay in Beijing and Guilin • How to Travel between Beijing and Guilin • Famous Food in Beijing and Guilin 1. Top Things to Do in Beijing and Guilin Both Beijing and Guilin offer many experiences for travelers, and it could be quite challenging to choose what you want to do. But don't worry, as our travel experts would carefully select the activities that suit you from these options. To improve tours and make our itineraries ever-better suited to our guests, our travel advisors and product team do in-depth field trips throughout China every year. Our office is located in Guilin, and we make more than 10 site visits around Guilin and at least three inspection tours of Beijing annually. Top Things to Do in Beijing Our guests are on the Great Wall • Walk along the Great Wall: You're recommended to explore the Mutianyu section, which is the most kid-friendly due to its relatively flat terrain, it's not too overcrowded, and you could take a cable car ride up and down the wall. If you want to hike or camp on the wild Great Wall, the Jinshanling or Jiankou sections are ideal for outdoor adventures. • Immerse yourself in the Forbidden City: Accompanied by our local guide, you could explore this palace complex with its popular attractions and hidden gems, and gain insights into the history behind them through storytelling explanations. We could arrange fun little games for your kids to discover the Forbidden City in an engaging way. • Discover the hutongs: You would visit a local family house in a hutong lane to experience the old Beijing lifestyle, learn Chinese calligraphy or paper cutting, and play the traditional folk game of diabolo. 4-Day Beijing Private Tour Forbidden City - Temple of Heaven - Great Wall - Summer Palace - Hutongs 4-Day Beijing Private Tour Forbidden City - Temple of Heaven - Great Wall - Summer Palace - Hutongs 4-Day Beijing Private Tour Forbidden City - Temple of Heaven - Great Wall - Summer Palace - Hutongs Top Things to Do in Guilin There aren't many highlights to explore in downtown Guilin. If you are short on time, you could skip the downtown area and go straight to see the highlights of Yangshuo and Longji. Top Things to Do in Yangshuo Our clients are on a cruise on the Li River • Take a 4-hour Li River cruise to leisurely enjoy the best views of mountains and the river from Guilin to Yangshuo. • Enjoy an authentic bamboo rafting trip along the Yulong River. It usually lasts for an hour, making it an ideal choice if you want to enjoy Yangshuo's scenery without spending too much time on a cruise. • A hike alongside the Li River to witness the most picturesque part at walking pace would take 1½–2 hours. It's popular among families with teenagers. • Go cycling or take a motorbike ride to explore rustic countryside areas at your own pace. For a less-crowded experience, trying SUP or kayaking could be a great option for your family in the summer. Top Things to Do in Longji Taking a 1-hour hike to see the best of the breathtaking Longji Rice Terraces is a must-do. We recommend visiting Ping'an Village, most popular of the three main village areas in Longji. It has the most convenient transportation, the best spots for capturing photos of the rice terraces, opportunities to chat with people from local ethnic groups, and a chance to make an ethnic food specialty bamboo tube rice. 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside 2. How Long Do You Need in Beijing and Guilin? A well-rounded trip taking in the major highlights in Beijing and Guilin usually takes at least week, with 4–5 days in Beijing and 3–4 days in Guilin. To maximize your travel time, we suggest you spend 2 days in Yangshuo as it offers more highlights than downtown Guilin and Longji. One day is enough to explore the essence of downtown Guilin or the Longji Rice Terraces. 3. A Classic Beijing and Guilin Itinerary This itinerary includes the must-see highlights in Beijing and Guilin, allowing you to explore in a balanced way. Beijing offers numerous cultural attractions that require more engagement, while Guilin provides a more relaxing atmosphere, making it a great place to unwind after visiting Beijing. • Day 1: Arrive in Beijing and explore at a leisurely pace for the rest of the day. • Day 2: Explore the well-preserved Forbidden City, sample delicious Beijing roast duck as your lunch, and wander through the hutongs to experience the old Beijing lifestyle. • Day 3: Visit the Temple of Heaven, which used to be where ancient royal sacrifices took place. Then, take a trip to the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall. • Day 4: See the beauty of the royal garden at the Summer Palace and then depart for Guilin. • Day 5: Embark on a day trip to take a light hike in Longji. You would witness the most beautiful part of the rice terraces along the way and make unique bamboo tube rice as your lunch at a local farmer's home. • Day 6: Visit the best of downtown Guilin, such as Reed Flute Cave, which features strange limestone formations, admire Elephant Trunk Hill, and learn about Chinese medicine in the ancient town of Daxu. • Day 7: Take a comfortable cruise to Yangshuo and explore Yangshuo's countryside scenery by bike at your own pace. • Day 8: Enjoy the best view of the Li River and karst mountains from Xianggong Hill in Yangshuo, and then depart. 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders 11-Day Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – ShanghaiClassic Wonders 4. How Much Does a Trip to Beijing and Guilin Cost? Travel costs in Beijing are higher than in Guilin, especially hotels and food. In Beijing, a standard room in a 3-star hotel costs about US$100 per night, while in Guilin, you could get a better 4-star hotel for a similar price. For a relaxing stay in Yangshuo and Longji, boutique hotels usually cost US$60–80 per night. • Beijing: 3-star hotels US$80–100, 4-star hotels US$110–150, 5-star hotels US$220–250 • Guilin: 3-star hotels US$60–70, 4-star-hotels US$90–110, 5-star hotels US$150–200 Food prices in Beijing and Guilin vary according to the restaurants you choose. Beijing Guilin Breakfast US$1–3 per person US$1 per person Mid-range restaurant US$30–60 per person US$7–11 per person High-end restaurant US$100 and above US$40 and above Direct flights from Beijing to Guilin cost about US$110–130. A private tour to Beijing costs about US$200 per person per day and is about US$150–180 per person per day for Guilin. This price is based on 2–4 people, including 4-star hotels, a private guide, a private car, a full-day itinerary, and tickets for attractions. During peak seasons, such as May 1–3, October 1–7, and the summer vacation from July to August, the prices for hotels and airfares could go up by 1–2 times. 5. Best Times to Visit Beijing and Guilin Beijing and Guilin are suitable to visit year-round. The best time to explore both cities is in autumn, from September to November, with daily highs of around 23°C (73°F) in Beijing and 28°C (82°F) in Guilin. You could experience pleasant weather, more sunny days, and fewer crowds (except for during National Day holiday from October 1–7). Spring, in April to May, is mild, making it a good option for a visit to Beijing and Guilin as well. During this time, you could witness Guilin's mists veiling the Li River and its peaks, giving that ethereal look captured in many a classical ink painting. Summer from June to August is hot in Beijing and Guilin, with high temperatures averaging 34°C (93°F) and sometimes reaching up to 38°C (100°F). So, it's better to explore outdoor attractions in the early morning or late afternoon. It's also the rainy season so you would probably experience downpours, which are sometimes stormy, but usually short. Winter, from December to March, is cold, attracts fewer crowds, and offers cheaper costs. Beijing is colder than Guilin, with snow and temperatures dropping to -8°C (18°F) on average in January. If your trip is during the Chinese tourism peaks, most notably the first weeks of May and October, the summer vacation, and the Spring Festival in late January or early to mid-February, there are still many solutions to ensure your travel experience isn't hindered. For example, we could take you to explore less-crowded sections of the Great Wall at Jinshanling or Gubeikou, arrange VIP-channel access to skip the queues, and your travel advisor could create a flexible itinerary to allow your guide to expertly avoid the most crowded situations. 6. Where to Stay in Beijing and Guilin Beijing and Guilin offer a wide range of hotels to suit various preferences and budget. In Beijing, if you prefer a central area that makes it easy to explore the city's main attractions, the Qianmen Street area is an excellent choice. If you also want to shop, Wangfujing is a popular area to stay. For families with children and culture lovers, we recommend choosing a hutong-style hotel near the Drum Tower for an authentic experience. In downtown Guilin, we suggest you stay at a hotel near Elephant Trunk Hill or Rong Lake, as this will make it convenient for you to visit city attractions and explore on your own. In Yangshuo, opt for accommodation near the Yulong River for quiet and easy access to the scenic highlights. In Longji, you're highly recommended to stay in Ping'an Village for convenient transportation and a variety of hotel options. Staying overnight in Longji allows you to avoid visiting the terraces when there are lots of travelers, reduces driving time from downtown Guilin, and gives you a chance to enjoy the tranquility of the village in the evening. 7. How to Travel between Beijing and Guilin We recommend taking a flight to travel between Beijing and Guilin for a more efficient journey. It's convenient and a direct flight typically takes 3 hours. In contrast, there are only about three high-speed trains operating each day between the two cities, which usually take 8 to 10 hours. A regular train journey takes a full day. 8. Famous Food in Beijing and Guilin You could find various types of food in Beijing and Guilin, whether you're looking to try local cuisines, Western dishes, vegetarian options, Muslim food, or anything else. One of Beijing's must-try specialties is roast duck, which you could enjoy at chain restaurants, such as Quanjude or Dadong. In Guilin, popular dishes include rice noodles and beer fish. Your local guide would give you suggestions based on your taste and requirements, and they could help you to order dishes.