ID: 1f5d2a72a46283ec
Title: How to Plan a 3-Week Itinerary in China: Top 3 Options (2026)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/3-weeks-china-itinerary.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

With a 3-week trip to China, you could enjoy a wide range of China's star attractions, including profound history, varied awesome landscapes, great architecture, and rich cultural experiences. • Where to Go • A Classic Itinerary • Including the Silk Road • Including Tibet • How to Travel around China Where to Spend 3 Weeks in China Spend 2 Weeks on China's Classics. If you have 3 weeks in China, consider spending 2 weeks in Beijing, Xi'an, Guilin, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai. The combination gives you a nice balance between culture and history. Beijing enjoys the most famous attractions like the Great Wall and the Forbidden City. Xi'an is famous for its Terracotta Warriors and is the best place to learn about China's ancient civilization. Guilin and Zhangjiajie are best for appreciating China's natural scenery and experiencing its countryside lifestyle. Shanghai is where you can see the collision of Republic-era rapid-rise and mega-city modernity. Add 1 Week for Your Own Interests. With the extra week, you could pick a region that matches your interests, such as: • Hangzhou, Suzhou, and Huangshan connect well with Shanghai and are a perfect option if you enjoy water towns, classical gardens, and a glimpse into China's high-tech side. • Chengdu is a must if seeing pandas is on your bucket list, especially for a family trip. • Yunnan is recommended for those who like fascinating minority villages and natural views. • If Tibet is on your bucket list, you can fit it into a 3-week itinerary. Tibet's holy Buddhist culture and vibe with its stunning plateau scenery are many a traveler's dream. • If you would prefer a relaxing experience and pace, we recommend a Yangtze Cruise. • Or you can tell us your preferred destinations. Our service is personalized. See more on How Long to Spend in China: Itineraries from 1 Week to 1 Month If you don't have any clear ideas yet, have a look at our three sample itineraries below for a starting point that you might like. 1. A Classic 3-Week China Itinerary for First-Timers It is a classic itinerary blend of culture and nature, with some hands-on local-culture experiences. This itinerary includes China's top tourist cities and top Chinese elements like the pandas, the Great Wall, and classical Chinese gardens and water towns: • Days 1–2: Shanghai • Day 3: Suzhou • Day 4–5: Huangshan • Days 6–7: Hangzhou • Days 8–10: Guilin • Days 11–12: Zhangjiajie • Days 13–15: Xi'an • Days 16–17: Datong • Days 18–21: Beijing Shanghai is a city where you can feel a strong sense of urban vitality and also see its remarkable past by visiting many old buildings. The Bund is a must, where you can experience in a turn of the head the contrast between Shanghai's past and present, seeing the old buildings and skyscrapers from the riverside. Our Clients in Shanghai's Bund Suzhou is famous for its classical Chinese gardens. Humble Administrator's Garden is a masterpiece among Chinese gardens. It is a must. A night tour of the Nets Master Garden is also recommended. You would see a different panorama from a daytime visit and find amazing live traditional Chinese cultural performances staged in the pavilions. If you want to see authentic Suzhou local life, we can arrange a rickshaw ride through its small alleys to see food markets, ancient wells, and stone pagodas along the way. Tongli Water Town near Suzhou is also a recommendation if you want to see ancient architecture and the traditional culture of South China. Days 4–5: The Yellow Mountains (Huangshan) Our clients in Huangshan The Yellow Mountains is one of the most famous mountain areas in China. Spring is best for rape flower vistas. Pine trees and seas of clouds are best seen in summer, and red leaves feature in autumn. Winter can display magical scenes of frost flowers and rime. Bishan Village is the best choice if you want to enjoy some quiet moments in the Huangshan countryside with your partner. Stay in a typical Hui-style inn, feel the freshness of the air on an early morning walk, and drink a coffee while enjoying nature in its unspoiled beauty. Hangzhou's classics like West Lake, Lingyin Temple, and the tea plantations are must-sees. But what really makes Hangzhou special is that it's also the heart of China's high-tech and e-commerce boom. Here, you can visit live-streaming bases to watch professional hosts in action, try a ride on a self-driving bus, see robots making ice cream, and explore tech centers showcasing the latest innovations from leading companies like Unitree's advanced robots. See our 5-Day Shanghai and Hangzhou High Tech Tour. Robots' experience in Wensan Future Technology Center Guilin is a city where you can see pastoral landscapes and enjoy the relaxing pace of countryside life. You would spend one day on a leisurely Li River Cruise to take in some of the best of Guilin's celebrated karst landscape. The other two days are given to Yangshuo, a much-loved town near Guilin. It's a place where you can cycle around the paddy fields and pointy hills with your children, walk the field paths with your partner, and talk with friendly local people. If your kids like adventure, we can arrange to explore a less-traveled cave and many more exciting activities. Days 11–12: Zhangjiajie ZhangJiajie Tianmen Mountain Spend two days to explore the highlight of Zhangjiajie, the National Forest Park. The iconic sandstone pillar is the inspiration for the floating mountains in the movie Avatar. Ride the Bailong Elevator to the top for panoramic views. Take a cable car ride up to Tianmen Mountain, known as the "Heaven's Gate Mountain." Walk along the glass skywalk and experience breathtaking views. You could also enjoy a leisurely walk along a crystal-clear stream, surrounded by lush vegetation and towering sandstone cliffs. Xi'an's main attraction is the Terracotta Warriors. Besides a regular visit, we would arrange a hand-made clay-warrior experience with local artisans. You would better understand the process of making the Terracotta Warriors and could take your creation home as a souvenir. It's recommended for both couples and families. The highlights of Datong are the Yungang Grottoes and Hanging Monastery. By visiting these attractions, you could learn about elements of Buddhism, Taoism, and Confucianism and see many superb craftsmanship. Our client makes a proposal on the Great Wall. With 4 days in Beijing, you can spend one day on the Great Wall. We recommend the Mutianyu Great Wall section, which is the most family-friendly one and a less-crowded section. If you like hiking, we can also arrange some Great Wall hiking for you. A sunset visit to the Great Wall would allow you to see and snap postcard-perfect dusky Wall views. There would also be fewer people around at this time. This is especially recommended if you want to have a romantic moment with your partner. Two days would be for Beijing's city-sightseeing highlights, including the Forbidden City, Temple of Heaven, Summer Palace, etc. If you want to experience the bustling (or leisurely retired) life of Beijingers, you could spend a day exploring local culture, perhaps visiting a Beijinger family in the hutongs or walking around a local community with markets and parks. 21-Day Classic Chinese History and Natural Wonders Tour A Grand Tour of China's Landmarks 21-Day Classic Chinese History and Natural Wonders Tour A Grand Tour of China's Landmarks 21-Day Classic Chinese History and Natural Wonders Tour A Grand Tour of China's Landmarks 2. 3 Weeks in China including Tibet • Days 1–3: Beijing (The Great Wall, the Forbidden City, the Temple of Heaven) • Days 4–5: Xi'an (the Terracotta Warriors with a related hands-on experience, a food tour, the city wall) • Days 6–9: Tibet (the Potala Palace, monasteries, and local-life experience) • Days 10–12: Chengdu with a panda volunteer program • Days 13–15: Zhangjiajie (the national forest park, mountains, and canyons) • Days 16–18: Guilin with nearby towns (a cruise, biking, bamboo rafting) • Days 19–21: Shanghai city sightseeing (or you can also choose to go to Hong Kong) If you are dreaming of a Tibet tour as part of your China trip, you could consider this itinerary. A classic Tibet tour (Lhasa + Lake Yamdrok) takes about 4 to 5 days. If you want to go to Everest Base Camp, you would need another 4 days. In Tibet, the Potala Palace is a must. Our guide would take you to the four best angles to see the palace. Barkhor Street is the best place to see devout Buddhists praying and catch a glimpse of the buzz of local Tibetan life. For a deeper understanding of local rural life, you could be a Tibetan Nomad for a day. We would take you to a village in the hills to experience horse riding, milking yaks, printing prayer flags, and other things that the nomads do. All our tours are customizable and can be adjusted based on your needs. Just contact us. 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet A Grand Exploration of China 3. A 3-Week China Itinerary with the Silk Road • Day 1–4: Beijing • Day 5–6: Xi'an • Day 7–8: Zhangye • Day 9–10: Dunhuang • Day 11–12: Turpan/Urumqi • Day 13–14: Kashgar • Day 15–16: Chengdu • Day 17–19: Zhangjiajie • Day 20–21: Shanghai If you're looking for a deeper cultural experience, and you're fascinated by grottoes, murals, ancient city ruins, and exotic minority traditions, consider adding the Silk Road to your trip. After visiting Xi'an, you can extend your journey west to Dunhuang, Zhangye, and all the way to Xinjiang. Along this route, you'll discover landscapes completely different from inland China like the rainbow-colored mountains of Zhangye Danxia, the vast deserts around Dunhuang, and the crystal-blue lakes on the Pamir Plateau. Rainbow Mountains in Zhangye The cultural highlights are just as impressive. At the Mogao Caves, you can explore ancient China's artistic and religious heritage. In the Turpan Museum, you'll learn about the cultural and economic exchanges that once took place along the Silk Road. In Kashgar Old Town, you can watch vibrant Uyghur dance performances, and in Urumqi's Erdaoqiao Bazaar, hunt for local delicacies and specialties. If you are interested in this itinerary, check out more details on our 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Costs for a 3-Week Tour in China For a private tour in China, the average cost per day is about US$220–350 per person, including flights/trains within China, 4- or 5-star hotels, lunches, attractions, guides, and private transport. Thus, a 3-week tour for two people would cost about US$9,500–15,000. A tour for a family of four may cost US$16,000–20,000 (kids under 10 get 30–50% off). These prices do not include international flights. The peak season times in China are the first week of May (Labor Day holiday), the summer vacation (July to August), and the first week of October (National Day holiday). During these holidays, airfares and hotel prices can double or triple. If you are planning a trip to China, please book it at least 3 to 6 months in advance for the best deals and availability. We offer a free cancellation policy: you'll receive a 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights if you cancel up to three weeks before departure. (See more details.) How to Travel around China Air travel and high-speed rail are the main convenient ways to travel long distances in China. For most travel between cities, air travel is the most recommended option, such as Beijing to Shanghai, Chengdu to Lhasa, etc. But for some relatively close cities, such as Beijing to Xi'an, high-speed trains are more recommended. Moreover, China's high-speed rail itself is part of the Chinese travel experience. When booking with us, let us know your travel preferences, and we will arrange the best travel options for you, seamlessly booking the flight/train tickets you need. All our tours can be customized based on your interests and needs. You can use our Create My Trip service to tell us your requirements. Our travel consultant will listen to and answer your inquiries carefully and promptly and prepare the best tour plan for you. • 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan • 19-Day Beijing, Xian, Yunnan, Guizhou, Shanghai and Suzhou Tour