ID: 166fd2aaec596ec0
Title: Harbin Tours 2026: Ice Festival, Snow Fun, Skiing…
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/harbin/tours.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The opening ceremony of the Harbin Ice Festival is predicted to be on January 5th, 2026, but the ice and snow sculptures in the Harbin Ice and Snow World are expected to open around Christmas and last until February 2026. Worried about how to stay warm in temperatures of minus 20 or 30 degrees? Concerned about waiting for a ride in the icy snow? Afraid of missing out on the true culture of Northern China? Leave all these worries to us. Our recommended Harbin tours below are designed to help you start to plan a memorable winter vacation in Northeast China. Feel free to tell us your requirements and interests — our experienced travel advisors are ready to tailor-make your dream trip. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. The opening ceremony of the Harbin Ice Festival is predicted to be on January 5th, 2026, but the ice and snow sculptures in the Harbin Ice and Snow World are expected to open around Christmas and last until February 2026. Worried about how to stay warm in temperatures of minus 20 or 30 degrees? Concerned about waiting for a ride in the icy snow? Afraid of missing out on the true culture of Northern China? Leave all these worries to us. Our recommended Harbin tours below are designed to help you start to plan a memorable winter vacation in Northeast China. Feel free to tell us your requirements and interests — our experienced travel advisors are ready to tailor-make your dream trip. The opening ceremony of the Harbin Ice Festival is predicted to be on January 5th, 2026, but the ice and snow sculptures in the Harbin Ice and Snow World are expected to open around Christmas and last until February 2026. Worried about how to stay warm in temperatures of minus 20 or 30 degrees? Concerned about waiting for a ride in the icy snow? Afraid of missing out on the true culture of Northern China? Leave all these worries to us. Our recommended Harbin tours below are designed to help you start to plan a memorable winter vacation in Northeast China. Feel free to tell us your requirements and interests — our experienced travel advisors are ready to tailor-make your dream trip. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. With China Highlights, your travel will be: • FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. • ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. • No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. Harbin Ice Festival Private Tours 5-Day Harbin, Snow Valley and China Snow Town Tour Authentic Homestay, Snowy Forest Trek, Dumpling Making View More 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour Rime Landscape, 5s Ski Resort, Hot Spring, Snow Town View More 6-Day Harbin and Mohe Tour Beiji Village, Beihong Village, Aurora Borealis, Volga Manor View More 8-Day Northeast China Winter Holiday Tour Chinese-Korean Cuisine, North Korea views, Shenyang Palace, Mt. Changbai View More 6-Day Harbin and Mt.Changbai Ski Resort Tour Changbaishan Wanda International Resort, Volcano Hot Spring, Ski at Night View more 7-Day Harbin, Snow Town, Mt.Changbai and Changchun Tour Twilight in Snow Town, Jingpo Lake, Winter Ice Fishing, Rime Rafting View More 8-Day Beijng and Harbin Winter Family Tour Great Wall, Forbidden City, Ice & Snow World, Siberian Tiger Park View More 4-Day Harbin & Hengdaohezi Town Kid-Friendly Tour China's Hokkaido, Winter Carnival, Ice & Snow World, Diamond Sea View more 7-Day Harbin Ice Festival and Yabuli Club Med Family Tour Harbin Polarland, Yabuli Club Med, Ice & Snow World, Zhaolin Park View more 5-Day Harbin Ski and Volgar Manor Tour(Without Hotel) Volgar Manor, Beginner-Friendly Ski Resort, Culinary Adventure, Ice & Snow World View more 1-Day Harbin Ice and Snow Fairyland Tour Sun Island, Foodie Tour, Ice & Snow World View more Harbin Ice Festival Private Tours 5-Day Harbin, Snow Valley and China Snow Town Tour Authentic Homestay, Snowy Forest Trek, Dumpling Making View More 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour Rime Landscape, 5s Ski Resort, Hot Spring, Snow Town View More 6-Day Harbin and Mohe Tour Beiji Village, Beihong Village, Aurora Borealis, Volga Manor View More 8-Day Northeast China Winter Holiday Tour Chinese-Korean Cuisine, North Korea views, Shenyang Palace, Mt. Changbai View More 5-Day Harbin, Snow Valley and China Snow Town Tour Authentic Homestay, Snowy Forest Trek, Dumpling Making View More 5-Day Harbin, Snow Valley and China Snow Town Tour Authentic Homestay, Snowy Forest Trek, Dumpling Making View More Authentic Homestay, Snowy Forest Trek, Dumpling Making 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour Rime Landscape, 5s Ski Resort, Hot Spring, Snow Town View More 5-Day Harbin, Yabuli and Snow Town Tour Rime Landscape, 5s Ski Resort, Hot Spring, Snow Town View More Rime Landscape, 5s Ski Resort, Hot Spring, Snow Town 6-Day Harbin and Mohe Tour Beiji Village, Beihong Village, Aurora Borealis, Volga Manor View More 6-Day Harbin and Mohe Tour Beiji Village, Beihong Village, Aurora Borealis, Volga Manor View More Beiji Village, Beihong Village, Aurora Borealis, Volga Manor 8-Day Northeast China Winter Holiday Tour Chinese-Korean Cuisine, North Korea views, Shenyang Palace, Mt. Changbai View More 8-Day Northeast China Winter Holiday Tour Chinese-Korean Cuisine, North Korea views, Shenyang Palace, Mt. Changbai View More Chinese-Korean Cuisine, North Korea views, Shenyang Palace, Mt. Changbai 6-Day Harbin and Mt.Changbai Ski Resort Tour Changbaishan Wanda International Resort, Volcano Hot Spring, Ski at Night View more 7-Day Harbin, Snow Town, Mt.Changbai and Changchun Tour Twilight in Snow Town, Jingpo Lake, Winter Ice Fishing, Rime Rafting View More 8-Day Beijng and Harbin Winter Family Tour Great Wall, Forbidden City, Ice & Snow World, Siberian Tiger Park View More 4-Day Harbin & Hengdaohezi Town Kid-Friendly Tour China's Hokkaido, Winter Carnival, Ice & Snow World, Diamond Sea View more 6-Day Harbin and Mt.Changbai Ski Resort Tour Changbaishan Wanda International Resort, Volcano Hot Spring, Ski at Night View more 6-Day Harbin and Mt.Changbai Ski Resort Tour Changbaishan Wanda International Resort, Volcano Hot Spring, Ski at Night View more Changbaishan Wanda International Resort, Volcano Hot Spring, Ski at Night 7-Day Harbin, Snow Town, Mt.Changbai and Changchun Tour Twilight in Snow Town, Jingpo Lake, Winter Ice Fishing, Rime Rafting View More 7-Day Harbin, Snow Town, Mt.Changbai and Changchun Tour Twilight in Snow Town, Jingpo Lake, Winter Ice Fishing, Rime Rafting View More Twilight in Snow Town, Jingpo Lake, Winter Ice Fishing, Rime Rafting 8-Day Beijng and Harbin Winter Family Tour Great Wall, Forbidden City, Ice & Snow World, Siberian Tiger Park View More 8-Day Beijng and Harbin Winter Family Tour Great Wall, Forbidden City, Ice & Snow World, Siberian Tiger Park View More Great Wall, Forbidden City, Ice & Snow World, Siberian Tiger Park 4-Day Harbin & Hengdaohezi Town Kid-Friendly Tour China's Hokkaido, Winter Carnival, Ice & Snow World, Diamond Sea View more 4-Day Harbin & Hengdaohezi Town Kid-Friendly Tour China's Hokkaido, Winter Carnival, Ice & Snow World, Diamond Sea View more China's Hokkaido, Winter Carnival, Ice & Snow World, Diamond Sea 7-Day Harbin Ice Festival and Yabuli Club Med Family Tour Harbin Polarland, Yabuli Club Med, Ice & Snow World, Zhaolin Park View more 5-Day Harbin Ski and Volgar Manor Tour(Without Hotel) Volgar Manor, Beginner-Friendly Ski Resort, Culinary Adventure, Ice & Snow World View more 1-Day Harbin Ice and Snow Fairyland Tour Sun Island, Foodie Tour, Ice & Snow World View more 7-Day Harbin Ice Festival and Yabuli Club Med Family Tour Harbin Polarland, Yabuli Club Med, Ice & Snow World, Zhaolin Park View more 7-Day Harbin Ice Festival and Yabuli Club Med Family Tour Harbin Polarland, Yabuli Club Med, Ice & Snow World, Zhaolin Park View more Harbin Polarland, Yabuli Club Med, Ice & Snow World, Zhaolin Park 5-Day Harbin Ski and Volgar Manor Tour(Without Hotel) Volgar Manor, Beginner-Friendly Ski Resort, Culinary Adventure, Ice & Snow World View more 5-Day Harbin Ski and Volgar Manor Tour(Without Hotel) Volgar Manor, Beginner-Friendly Ski Resort, Culinary Adventure, Ice & Snow World View more Volgar Manor, Beginner-Friendly Ski Resort, Culinary Adventure, Ice & Snow World 1-Day Harbin Ice and Snow Fairyland Tour Sun Island, Foodie Tour, Ice & Snow World View more 1-Day Harbin Ice and Snow Fairyland Tour Sun Island, Foodie Tour, Ice & Snow World View more Sun Island, Foodie Tour, Ice & Snow World Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Explore Beyond Harbin: Winter Wonders Across China While Harbin offers a magical snowy experience, you can also explore the warmth of China's highlands like Yunnan and Tibet or enjoy the mild winter in the south like Guangzhou, Chaoshan, and Xiamen. 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang View More 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou View More 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More More China Winter Tours Explore Beyond Harbin: Winter Wonders Across China While Harbin offers a magical snowy experience, you can also explore the warmth of China's highlands like Yunnan and Tibet or enjoy the mild winter in the south like Guangzhou, Chaoshan, and Xiamen. 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang View More 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou View More 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang View More 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang View More Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou View More 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou View More Chaozhou, Shantou, Jieyang, and Meizhou 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang View More 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang View More Guangzhou, Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome More China Winter Tours Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice FAQ about Harbin Winter Trip 1. What are the main venues for the Ice and Snow Festival? The Ice and Snow World venue, the Sun Island Snow Sculpture Art Expo, and the Zhaolin Park Ice Lantern Festival venue are the three main venues for Harbin International Ice and Snow Festival. 2. What can I do in December before the festival? Before the opening of the Ice and Snow Festival venues, huge snow and ice sculptures are being created in the middle of December. As the venues are closed before late December, you are unable to see the sculpting process up close. However, there are still many other places to see... At Central Street, you can see how people make (smaller) snow sculptures if lucky enough. Take the warm shuttle bus to Siberian Tigers Park, and you can see Siberian tigers in the outdoors. Have a skiing day or holiday, soak in a hot spring… Although the Ice and Snow Festival doesn't start yet, you can still have fun in Harbin! 3. How to protect my digital products? Batteries are affected easily by low temperatures. When outside, put your cell phone and camera in a warm bag or inside your coat. If you plan to take a lot of pictures, do bring a spare battery as batteries run out quickly in low temperatures. FAQ about Harbin Winter Trip 1. What are the main venues for the Ice and Snow Festival? The Ice and Snow World venue, the Sun Island Snow Sculpture Art Expo, and the Zhaolin Park Ice Lantern Festival venue are the three main venues for Harbin International Ice and Snow Festival. 2. What can I do in December before the festival? Before the opening of the Ice and Snow Festival venues, huge snow and ice sculptures are being created in the middle of December. As the venues are closed before late December, you are unable to see the sculpting process up close. However, there are still many other places to see... At Central Street, you can see how people make (smaller) snow sculptures if lucky enough. Take the warm shuttle bus to Siberian Tigers Park, and you can see Siberian tigers in the outdoors. Have a skiing day or holiday, soak in a hot spring… Although the Ice and Snow Festival doesn't start yet, you can still have fun in Harbin! 3. How to protect my digital products? Batteries are affected easily by low temperatures. When outside, put your cell phone and camera in a warm bag or inside your coat. If you plan to take a lot of pictures, do bring a spare battery as batteries run out quickly in low temperatures.