ID: 7c209cf53f59504b
Title: Top 30 Things to Do in Hong Kong, Must-Visit Attractions
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/hong-kong/top-things-to-do.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Hong Kong is blessed with many popular attractions and sightseeing opportunities. You will find endless things to see and do. Here, we have listed the top 30 things to do in Hong Kong for you. These are places and sights that give Hong Kong its highlights and unique local color. 1. Take the Tram to Victoria Peak With an elevation of 552 meters, Victoria Peak is the highest point on Hong Kong Island. It is the best place to look out over the towering city skyline. Riding the 125-year-old Peak Tram is a visual experience. This 8-minute trip will offer you sweeping views of Hong Kong Island's skyscrapers, verdant trees, and walking paths. On the peak, you will feast your eyes on a sea of skyscrapers and the city's beautiful blue waterways, and even the green hills of the distant New Territories, if the weather permits. At night, you can enjoy the beautiful night view of Hong Kong - a dazzling galaxy of light. 2. Ride the Star Ferry Ride the Star Ferry to enjoy the view of the skyline of Victoria Harbor. The Star Ferry is one of the best ways to enjoy the view of the Victoria Harbour skyline. The Star Ferry has been carrying passengers from Hong Kong Island to Kowloon and back since 1888. You can embark on a trip from Tsim Sha Tsui Ferry Pier on the Kowloon Peninsula to either the Central Ferry Piers or the Wan Chai Pier on the Hong Kong Island side. The shortest voyage takes about 7 minutes and costs US$0.25. It is memorable to take a close look at so many towering skyscrapers while floating on the calm waters. 3. Soak Up the Temple Street Night Market Atmosphere Temple Street Night Market To experience local life in Hong Kong, the street markets are worth a visit. Temple Street is one of the best markets with a local atmosphere. There, you can find a great variety of things, such as local food, clothes, watches, jade, and antiques. Street singers and fortune-tellers make it more colorful. Read more on Top Street Markets in Hong Kong. 4. Stroll Along Tsim Sha Tsui Promenade Tsim Sha Tsui Promenade runs along the tip of Kowloon's waterfront. It is one of the best places to see the beautiful views of the Hong Kong skyline and bustling Victoria Harbour. The Avenue of Stars, the Clock Tower, Star Ferry Pier, and Hong Kong Museum of Art are located along the promenade. It is enjoyable to take a stroll and experience a slower pace of life in the international metropolis. 5. Enjoy Dim Sum in a Local Restaurant Enjoy dim sum in a local restaurant. Dim sum literally means "to touch your heart" and refers to a vast number of exquisite bite-sized dishes. The diversity of dim sum dishes is amazing. The restaurants always offer 30 or 40 different dishes for customers to choose from, including shrimp dumplings (har gow), congee (rice porridge), steamed pork dumplings (siu mei), and spring rolls. 6. Ride the Tram (Ding Ding) for Sightseeing Ride the tram for sightseeing in Central, Hong Kong. The tram has been used as a vehicle in Hong Kong Island for over a century. It is affectionately called "Ding" by the locals. You will be surprised that this old-fashioned contraption still operates in this modern metropolis. A tram ride is a cheap and enjoyable way to experience the color and atmosphere of Hong Kong's backstreet life. It stops at all the right places and goes slowly enough so that tourists can see the sights along the streets and can get close-up photos from the top of the boxcars. 7. Pray at Wong Tai Sin Temple Wong Tai Sin Temple in Hong Kong Wong Tai Sin Temple, built in 1945, is one of Hong Kong's most famous temples. It is known as a temple that "makes every wish come true upon request". The temple is unique for being dedicated to three religions (Taoism, Buddhism, and Confucianism). Even though you may not believe in those religions, this temple is worth a visit because of its natural setting and beautifully decorated buildings. 8. Have Fun at Hong Kong Disneyland If you're traveling with kids, Hong Kong Disneyland is a must-visit place. It is a fairy-tale world with classic Disney attractions, unique shops and restaurants, and dazzling live entertainment in a delightful setting. 9. Visit Pandas at Ocean Park Hong Kong Dolphin Show at Ocean Park Hong Kong's biggest and most popular theme park is Ocean Park Hong Kong. Along with acrobatic sea mammals, there are exhibits of other sea creatures. The Amazing Asian Animals section has pandas. You can ride the sky tram to see the scenery. There is a roller coaster and many other big rides. 10. Relax at Lan Kwai Fong Lan Kwai Fong is an L-shaped uphill trail in the Central district of Hong Kong. It is an entertainment area with bars and restaurants. This stone-paved path is full of European-style bars and restaurants. Most of them are open from noon to 1am or later. As night falls, many young people love to party there. Originating in the early 1970s, Lan Kwai Fong has developed from an alley into a region rich in Western culture. 11. Enjoy a Macau Day Trip Ruins of St. Paul's in Macau Only an hour away by ferry, another world awaits you with Portuguese buildings to see, a different style of cuisine to taste, and huge casino resorts. The world's biggest gambling city is a big change of pace from Hong Kong. Get detailed information about How to Plan a One Day Trip to Macau from Hong Kong. 12. Explore Lantau Island Lantau Island is the largest island in Hong Kong. It is still a sparsely populated island of natural parkland, beaches, mountains, and hiking and biking trails. You can get away to this island for relaxation, sightseeing, and outdoor adventures. A 25-minute ride on Ngong Ping 360 offers an astonishing bird's-eye view of the magical deep blue sea and lush green mountainside. 13. Discover Hong Kong's History Hong Kong has had a fascinating history since the last emperor of the Song Dynasty fled there 700 years ago. British colonization made Hong Kong a key port and a stage for battle during WWII. Hong Kong has a number of good museums but the Hong Kong Museum of History will probably stand out as the favorite for tourists. Learn why Hong Kong became one of the world's foremost trade, investment, and financial centers. 14. Visit Tai O Fishing Village Tai O Village in Hong Kong Tai O Fishing Village was the earliest developed fishing village on Lantau Island and is known as the "Venice of Hong Kong". Thanks to its location far away from the busy urban areas, Tai O is less affected by urbanization and still retains the style of the early fishing village. Most of the residents of Tai O are Hakkas, who make a living from fishing and live a peaceful life. The residents shuttle around on small boats. The high-rise houses built on the water are a major feature of the village. 15. Experience the Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macao Bridge Opened on October 23rd, 2018, Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macao Bridge is the world's longest sea crossing bridge. It is a combination of a cross-sea bridge, an artificial island, and a submarine tunnel, with a total length of 55 kilometers. The west end connects to the Zhuhai and Macao ports and the east end connects to Hong Kong Port, which greatly facilitates the local people and tourists from Guangdong, Hong Kong, and Macao. 16. Ride the Famous Central–Mid-Levels Escalator Central-mid-levels Escalator The escalator connects the central business district with the Mid-Levels residential area. It is 800 meters long and is the world's longest outdoor escalator. The journey takes about 20 minutes. The Mid-Levels Escalator traverses a number of major Central streets, including Queen's Road Central and Hollywood Road. There are many attractions, such as the former Central Police Station, along the way. It is a good and free means of transport for tourists. In addition, the escalator also passes through the SoHo area, which has restaurants and bars. It is full of European-style bars, Hong Kong tea restaurants, and souvenir shops. Foodies enjoy finding satisfactory food. 17. Enjoy the Famous Light Show: A Symphony of Lights A Symphony of Lights is a famous laser light and music show in Hong Kong. It utilizes 44 skyscrapers on both sides of Victoria Harbour. It is the world's largest light and sound show. The best place to watch the show is from the Avenue of Stars on the Tsim Sha Tsui waterfront, the Golden Bauhinia Square in Wan Chai, or the Star Ferry in Victoria Harbour. 18. Admire Po Lin Monastery and the Big Buddha Po Lin Monastery is located on Ngong Ping, Lantau Island. The monastery has one of the biggest bronze statues of Buddha in a sitting position in the world, called the Big Buddha or Tian Tan Buddha. The Buddha statue is made of 202 pieces of bronze, weighs 250 tons, and reaches up to 23 meters. 19. Bargain at Stanley Market Stanley Market is a must-see spot if you visit Stanley at the southern end of Hong Kong Island. There are stalls and shops selling a wide variety of items, such as traditional Chinese handicrafts, antiques, paintings, silks, clothing, fabrics, postcards, and more. It is definitely a good place to buy souvenirs and enjoy the fun of bargaining. 20. Visit the Floating Village at Aberdeen Aberdeen was originally a fishing village and it is now a popular tourist spot. It is unique due to its tranquil beauty and the mix of tradition and modernity. Hundreds of villagers still retain the traditional lifestyle and live on the fishing boats. You can take a small fishing boat to explore the floating village and listen to the fishermen telling stories of the past. 21. Relax at Repulse Bay Beach Repulse Bay is located on the south side of Victoria Peak on Hong Kong Island. It is known as "the first bay in the world" and also has the reputation of being the "Oriental Hawaii". It is the most popular and most accessible beach in Hong Kong. Repulse Bay is one of the most prestigious residential areas in Hong Kong, with numerous villas on the slopes of the bay. 22. Lose yourself in the Tranquil Nan Lian Garden Nan Lian Garden is a traditional Chinese garden in the style of the Tang Dynasty (618–907). It is a perfect blend of hills, water features, trees, rocks, bridges, and wooden structures. Surrounded by high-rise buildings, this is an elegant garden that is rare in the downtown area. It will impress you with its striking contrast of tradition and modernity. 23. Taste Amazing Seafood at Jumbo Kingdom Jumbo Kingdom is home to a famous restaurant floating in Aberdeen's harbor, the Jumbo Floating Restaurant, and is surrounded by million-dollar yachts. Jumbo Kingdom offers a free shuttle service to/from the restaurant. It is the world's largest floating restaurant and is best known for its fresh seafood, traditional Cantonese cuisine, and its traditional Chinese decorations. 24. Hike Along Dragon's Back If you are a lover of outdoor activities, you can enjoy a hike along Dragon's Back, which is at the southeast corner of Hong Kong Island. This hike is rated as one of the best urban walking routes in Asia. During the 4–5 hours' hike along the mountain ridge, you will enjoy a bird's-eye view of the sea, mountains, and outlying islands. 25. Experience Excitement at Happy Valley Racecourse Horse Racing in Hong Kong Happy Valley Racecourse, located in the heart of Hong Kong Island, is surrounded by high-rise buildings. It was the first racecourse in Hong Kong, with a capacity for 35,000 spectators. Every year, the horse racing season lasts from September to June and every race attracts tens of thousands of horse racing fans. The races at Happy Valley Racecourse are usually held on Wednesday evenings. The rest are held at Sha Tin Racecourse. 26. Spend Some Time on Lamma Island Lamma Island is the third largest island in Hong Kong. As it is close to the city, this island has become a leisurely weekend resort. Blessed with fresh air, beautiful coastal scenery, and delicious seafood, it attracts many local people and tourists. There, you can experience the old fishing village culture and you can also feel the romantic Western atmosphere. You can take a leisurely hike amid the picturesque scenery, visit the art shops, and taste some seafood. 27. Hunt for the Best Bargains at Mong Kok Ladies' Market It is so called because almost all of the stalls sold women's clothing and supplies in the early days. Nowadays, in addition to women's clothing, you can also find men's clothing, leather bags, jewelry, toys, cosmetics, and even household items. This open-air market has a length of over 100 meters. 28. Visit Hong Kong Wetland Park Hong Kong Wetland Park is located in the northern part of Tin Shui Wai, New Territories. You may not believe that Hong Kong, which has a lot of high-rise buildings, can have such a large-scale original wetland reserve. The park has a variety of ecological environments, such as freshwater swamps, reed beds, ponds, mudflats, and mangroves. There are many birds, fish, insects, and amphibians living there. If you are a photography enthusiast or a nature lover, you will love this wetland park. 29. Head to the Stars at the Hong Kong Space Museum The Hong Kong Space Museum is located in Tsim Sha Tsui, close to Victoria Harbour. The unique egg-shaped design is very eye-catching. It is one of the most advanced space science museums in the world. It is a good place to visit if you are traveling with kids. Sai Kung is located on Sai Kung Peninsula in the eastern part of Hong Kong. It has the reputation of being the "Back Garden of Hong Kong". The best way to see the scenery there is to hire a boat and take a trip around the island (about 150 Hong Kong dollars). You can also stroll along the beach and enjoy the rich seafood. Tour Hong Kong with Us Beyond the glass and steel of Hong Kong's commercial persona, the city also boasts a vibrant cultural scene. You will learn more about this city when you travel with a local expert, who can guide you to explore the traditional streets and taste the local cuisine. Just tell us what you want to experience and we will tailor-make a tour for you. Here are our most popular Hong Kong tours: • 4-Day Hong Kong Family Tour - taking you to visit the well-known Victoria Peak and have fun at Disneyland Park