ID: 74837a7b00bb562a
Title: China Travel Guide - An Unforgettable, Once-in-a-lifetime Experience
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

As one of the four exceptional ancient civilizations, China boasts a lengthy history and diverse geography—making it a coveted destination on many travelers' bucket lists. With its wide-ranging cultural heritage and convenient travel amenities, China is also an outstanding choice for family vacations. From the iconic Great Wall to Shanghai's soaring skyscrapers, all the way up to the "Roof of the World" and beyond, a trip to China guarantees an unforgettable, once-in-a-lifetime experience. Continue reading to ensure a seamless journey: Top China Tours How to Plan a Trip Travel Guide by Month Top Tour Destinations Top Things to Do Best Places/Sights to Visit Things to Know When Eating in China Shopping in China As one of the four exceptional ancient civilizations, China boasts a lengthy history and diverse geography—making it a coveted destination on many travelers' bucket lists. With its wide-ranging cultural heritage and convenient travel amenities, China is also an outstanding choice for family vacations. From the iconic Great Wall to Shanghai's soaring skyscrapers, all the way up to the "Roof of the World" and beyond, a trip to China guarantees an unforgettable, once-in-a-lifetime experience. Continue reading to ensure a seamless journey: • Top China Tours • How to Plan a Trip • Travel Guide by Month • Top Tour Destinations • Top Things to Do • Best Places/Sights to Visit • Things to Know When Eating in China • Shopping in China Top China Tours These are our best sellers. Over 10,000 customers have helped select these as the most popular China Highlights tours. Of course each of them can be tailor-made to your requirements at the booking stage. Take a look and contact us. Our consultancy is free. A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour The best choice for panda fans Be a panda keeper View More Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai The best choice for ones who have a Tibet dream Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the picturesque rural China View More China Natural Wonders Discovery 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for nature lovers Witness the Hallelujah Mountains View More Find out Top 10 China Tours for First Visits and Returns Top China Tours These are our best sellers. Over 10,000 customers have helped select these as the most popular China Highlights tours. Of course each of them can be tailor-made to your requirements at the booking stage. Take a look and contact us. Our consultancy is free. A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour The best choice for panda fans Be a panda keeper View More Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai The best choice for ones who have a Tibet dream Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the picturesque rural China View More China Natural Wonders Discovery 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for nature lovers Witness the Hallelujah Mountains View More These are our best sellers. Over 10,000 customers have helped select these as the most popular China Highlights tours. Of course each of them can be tailor-made to your requirements at the booking stage. Take a look and contact us. Our consultancy is free. A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour The best choice for panda fans Be a panda keeper View More Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai The best choice for ones who have a Tibet dream Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the picturesque rural China View More China Natural Wonders Discovery 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for nature lovers Witness the Hallelujah Mountains View More A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour The best choice for panda fans Be a panda keeper View More A Close Encounter with Pandas 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour The best choice for panda fans Be a panda keeper View More • The best choice for panda fans • Be a panda keeper Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai The best choice for ones who have a Tibet dream Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 2-Week Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai The best choice for ones who have a Tibet dream Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More • The best choice for ones who have a Tibet dream • Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the picturesque rural China View More 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for first-timers Discover the picturesque rural China View More • The best choice for first-timers • Discover the picturesque rural China China Natural Wonders Discovery 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for nature lovers Witness the Hallelujah Mountains View More China Natural Wonders Discovery 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai Tour The best choice for nature lovers Witness the Hallelujah Mountains View More • The best choice for nature lovers • Witness the Hallelujah Mountains Find out Top 10 China Tours for First Visits and Returns How to Plan a Trip to China How to Plan Your First Trip to China — 7 Easy Steps How to Plan Your Family Trip to China Best (& Worst & Cheapest) Times to Visit China, Rainy Season How to Plan a Summer Trip to China How to Plan a Winter Trip to China How to Plan a Trip to China and Japan How to Plan a Trip to China How to Plan Your First Trip to China — 7 Easy Steps How to Plan Your Family Trip to China Best (& Worst & Cheapest) Times to Visit China, Rainy Season How to Plan Your First Trip to China — 7 Easy Steps How to Plan Your Family Trip to China Best (& Worst & Cheapest) Times to Visit China, Rainy Season How to Plan a Summer Trip to China How to Plan a Winter Trip to China How to Plan a Trip to China and Japan How to Plan a Summer Trip to China How to Plan a Winter Trip to China How to Plan a Trip to China and Japan China Travel Guide by Month Top 7 Places to Visit in January in China Top 6 Places to Visit in February in China Top 5 Places to Visit in March in China Top 9 Places to Visit in April in China Top 10 Places to Visit in May in China Top 7 Places to Visit in June in China Top 8 Places to Visit in July in China Top 8 Places to Visit in August in China Top 6 Places to Visit in September in China Top 10 Places to Visit in October in China Best 5 Places to Visit in November in China The Top 9 Places to Visit in December in China China Travel Guide by Month Top 7 Places to Visit in January in China Top 6 Places to Visit in February in China Top 5 Places to Visit in March in China Top 7 Places to Visit in January in China Top 6 Places to Visit in February in China Top 5 Places to Visit in March in China Top 9 Places to Visit in April in China Top 10 Places to Visit in May in China Top 7 Places to Visit in June in China Top 9 Places to Visit in April in China Top 10 Places to Visit in May in China Top 7 Places to Visit in June in China Top 8 Places to Visit in July in China Top 8 Places to Visit in August in China Top 6 Places to Visit in September in China Top 8 Places to Visit in July in China Top 8 Places to Visit in August in China Top 6 Places to Visit in September in China Top 10 Places to Visit in October in China Best 5 Places to Visit in November in China The Top 9 Places to Visit in December in China Top 10 Places to Visit in October in China Best 5 Places to Visit in November in China The Top 9 Places to Visit in December in China Top China Travel Destinations China has a lot of places worth visiting: ancient ruins, modern skylines, breathtaking karst mountains... Is it hard to limit a list of China's best travel destinations to 10, but we have: BeijingGreat Wall . Forbidden City Xi'anTerracotta Warriors . Ancient City Wall GuilinKarst Landscapes . Idyllic Countryside ShanghaiSkyscrapers . Bund ZhangjiajieAvatar Hallelujah Mountain . Glass Bridge ChengduGiant Panda . Cuisine and UNESCO Scenery Silk RoadDunhuang Mogao Caves . Rainbow mountains Xizang (Tibet)Mt. Everest . Potala Palace Find out more China Tour Destinations Top China Travel Destinations China has a lot of places worth visiting: ancient ruins, modern skylines, breathtaking karst mountains... Is it hard to limit a list of China's best travel destinations to 10, but we have: BeijingGreat Wall . Forbidden City Xi'anTerracotta Warriors . Ancient City Wall GuilinKarst Landscapes . Idyllic Countryside ShanghaiSkyscrapers . Bund ZhangjiajieAvatar Hallelujah Mountain . Glass Bridge ChengduGiant Panda . Cuisine and UNESCO Scenery Silk RoadDunhuang Mogao Caves . Rainbow mountains Xizang (Tibet)Mt. Everest . Potala Palace Top China Travel Destinations China has a lot of places worth visiting: ancient ruins, modern skylines, breathtaking karst mountains... Is it hard to limit a list of China's best travel destinations to 10, but we have: BeijingGreat Wall . Forbidden City Xi'anTerracotta Warriors . Ancient City Wall GuilinKarst Landscapes . Idyllic Countryside ShanghaiSkyscrapers . Bund ZhangjiajieAvatar Hallelujah Mountain . Glass Bridge ChengduGiant Panda . Cuisine and UNESCO Scenery Silk RoadDunhuang Mogao Caves . Rainbow mountains Xizang (Tibet)Mt. Everest . Potala Palace Top China Travel Destinations China has a lot of places worth visiting: ancient ruins, modern skylines, breathtaking karst mountains... Is it hard to limit a list of China's best travel destinations to 10, but we have: BeijingGreat Wall . Forbidden City Xi'anTerracotta Warriors . Ancient City Wall GuilinKarst Landscapes . Idyllic Countryside ShanghaiSkyscrapers . Bund BeijingGreat Wall . Forbidden City Xi'anTerracotta Warriors . Ancient City Wall GuilinKarst Landscapes . Idyllic Countryside ShanghaiSkyscrapers . Bund ZhangjiajieAvatar Hallelujah Mountain . Glass Bridge ChengduGiant Panda . Cuisine and UNESCO Scenery Silk RoadDunhuang Mogao Caves . Rainbow mountains Xizang (Tibet)Mt. Everest . Potala Palace ZhangjiajieAvatar Hallelujah Mountain . Glass Bridge ChengduGiant Panda . Cuisine and UNESCO Scenery Silk RoadDunhuang Mogao Caves . Rainbow mountains Xizang (Tibet)Mt. Everest . Potala Palace Find out more China Tour Destinations Top Things to Do in China For the top tourist activities in China, we have made themed pages to give you the insights needed to decide what you would like to do in China. We have also covered what you need to plan a trip to appreciate each of these top attractions. The Giant Panda The Great Wall Hiking The Terracotta Army The Li River Chinese Food The Potala Palace Find out more Highlights of China Top Things to Do in China For the top tourist activities in China, we have made themed pages to give you the insights needed to decide what you would like to do in China. We have also covered what you need to plan a trip to appreciate each of these top attractions. The Giant Panda The Great Wall Hiking The Terracotta Army The Great Wall Hiking The Li River Chinese Food The Potala Palace Find out more Highlights of China The Best Places/Sights to Visit in China The 10 Most Popular Tourist Destinations in China Top 10 Unique Experiences in China The Most Beautiful Places in China Things to Know When Eating in China How to Eat in China — Chinese Dining Etiquette The 8 Most Popular Chinese Dishes You Should Eat What the Chinese Eat for Breakfast — 10 Popular Local Breakfasts The Best Places/Sights to Visit in China The 10 Most Popular Tourist Destinations in China Top 10 Unique Experiences in China The Most Beautiful Places in China The 10 Most Popular Tourist Destinations in China Top 10 Unique Experiences in China The Most Beautiful Places in China Things to Know When Eating in China How to Eat in China — Chinese Dining Etiquette The 8 Most Popular Chinese Dishes You Should Eat What the Chinese Eat for Breakfast — 10 Popular Local Breakfasts Things to Know When Eating in China How to Eat in China — Chinese Dining Etiquette The 8 Most Popular Chinese Dishes You Should Eat What the Chinese Eat for Breakfast — 10 Popular Local Breakfasts How to Eat in China — Chinese Dining Etiquette The 8 Most Popular Chinese Dishes You Should Eat What the Chinese Eat for Breakfast — 10 Popular Local Breakfasts Shopping in China — Great Gifts and How to Buy Them The Top 10 China Souvenirs to Bring Back Home Chinese Gift Ideas for Children China Post — How to Mail Big Buys Home Shopping in China — Great Gifts and How to Buy Them The Top 10 China Souvenirs to Bring Back Home Chinese Gift Ideas for Children China Post — How to Mail Big Buys Home The Top 10 China Souvenirs to Bring Back Home Chinese Gift Ideas for Children China Post — How to Mail Big Buys Home