ID: 71cdbeae9f6a0fd2
Title: How to Plan a Shanghai and Zhangjiajie Tour in 2026
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-shanghai-and-zhangjiajie.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Shanghai is known as an international economic center and a metropolis that blends modernity and historical vibes. Zhangjiajie, unlike the steel jungle comprised of skyscrapers in Shanghai, is made of natural beauty with peculiar rock formations and thriving forests. If you would like a tour with an awesome modern city and spectacular nature, traveling to Shanghai and Zhangjiajie could fulfill your dreams. • 1. How to Travel from Shanghai to Zhangjiajie • 2. How Many Days to Spend in Shanghai and Zhangjiajie • 3. Itinerary Suggestions for Shanghai and Zhangjiajie • 4. Where to Stay in Shanghai and Zhangjiajie • 5. The Best Times to Visit Shanghai and Zhangjiajie • 6. What to Eat in Shanghai and Zhangjiajie • 7. How Much Does It Cost to Visit Shanghai and Zhangjiajie? 1. How to Get from Beijing to Zhangjiajie Shanghai is about 1,300 kilometers (800 miles) from Zhangjiajie. The quickest way to travel from Shanghai to Zhangjiajie is by flight. By plane (recommended): There are daily direct flights from Shanghai to Zhangjiajie, taking about 2½ hours. For a more comfortable and complete experience, we recommend choosing an evening flight to ensure a full day in Shanghai. By train: You could opt for high-speed trains to travel from Shanghai to Zhangjiajie as long as you don't mind the long travel time, which takes about 9 hours. 2. How Many Days to Spend in Shanghai and Zhangjiajie For first-time visitors, we recommend spending 3 days in Shanghai for a comprehensive and leisurely experience. If you are short on time, consider spending a full day on the highlights in central Shanghai, where attractions are close to each other, including the Bund, Shanghai Old Street, Shanghai Tower, and Yu Garden. For additional days, you could choose nearby destinations based on your interests. If you wish to immerse yourself in traditional Chinese life, plan a day trip to Zhujiajiao Water Town, often known as the Venice of Shanghai. Families traveling with children may opt for a day at Shanghai Disneyland for a fun-filled adventure. For a change of scenery, take a high-speed train journey. Within an hour you could reach Suzhou, renowned for its classical gardens and historical canals, or Hangzhou, known for its picturesque West Lake. We recommend staying 5 days in Zhangjiajie for a first visit, with 3 days in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, 1 day in Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon with its glass bridge, and your last day at Tianmen Mountain in Zhangjiajie. If you only have 3 days in Zhangjiajie, spend 1 day in each of the above. Or you could spend one more day in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park and skip Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon and its glass bridge. This is because it is often crowded due to its fame and it is similar to the glass skywalk on Tianmen Mountain, which also offers a feeling of adventure. Popular tour extension ideas: If you have more time to spare, you could easily extend your trip to Chengdu (2+ days) to see the giant pandas, to Lijiang (2+ days) for Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, or to Guilin (2–4 days) for China's top karst landscapes and rural scenery. 3. Itinerary Suggestions for Shanghai and Zhangjiajie Below are two itinerary ideas for inspiration. All of our itineraries are customizable, so feel free to contact us for your own personalized and hassle-free private tour. 1) 5-Day Shanghai and Zhangjiajie Tour With this time-smart itinerary, you could easily visit the main highlights of Shanghai and Zhangjiajie within 5 days. • Day 1: Shanghai arrival • Day 2: The Bund, Shanghai Old Street, Shanghai Tower, and Yu Garden • Day 3: Zhujiajiao Water Town in Shanghai, then fly to Zhangjiajie • Day 4: Zhangjiajie National Forest Park • Day 5: Tianmen Mountain and departure We've prepared a journey through time for you in Shanghai. Appreciate the traditional Chinese landscaping aesthetic in Yu Garden and feel the lingering charm of the old times on the Bund and Shanghai Old Street. After learning about the stories behind Shanghai's historic buildings in Puxi district, we would arrange a ferry to Pudong district to explore Shanghai's modernity. It's just like traveling from the past to the future. Get ready to be amazed by the panoramic view of the city from the top of Shanghai Tower. For a special imperial-era ambiance, your private guide would lead you to explore a traditional Chinese garden in Zhujiajiao Water Town and relax in a tea house while you enjoy a cup of Chinese tea and taste some local snacks. Your days in Zhangjiajie would be surrounded by greenery and mountains. Breathe in fresh air and enjoy the natural beauty of Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. Avatar Hallelujah Mountain is famous and a must-see for fans of Avatar. Walking up the stairway of 999 steps to 'Heaven's Gate' on the summit of Tianmen Mountain might be a little challenging for you. An escalator is also provided to save your strength before witnessing its magnificent view. 2) 9-Day Shanghai and Zhangjiajie Tour This itinerary is designed for a more relaxed experience with exciting activities, making it perfect for active couples and families with teenagers. In Shanghai, as opposed to the first itinerary, we recommend dedicating a day to Shanghai Disneyland if you are traveling with kids. It boasts the world's first Zootopia-themed Disney theme park, providing ample space for children to have fun and create cherished family memories. If you are more interested in Shanghai's culture, we could organize a visit to a traditional Shanghai home. Engage in activities like shopping in the market for ingredients, cooking together to savor delicious meals, and immersing yourself in the daily routines of a Shanghai family for half a day. In Zhangjiajie, after spending 3 days leisurely exploring the breathtaking Zhangjiajie National Forest Park including the idyllic Golden Whip Stream, take a light hike in Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon as you gather the courage to walk across the world's tallest glass bridge. As an exclusive experience, we have specially prepared for you a rock climbing adventure at Red Rock Ridge, designed by a top French outdoor company, and a biking tour led by local professional guides to provide you with an up-close encounter of the beautiful landscapes. • Day 1: Shanghai arrival • Day 2: The Bund, Shanghai Old Street, Shanghai Tower, and Yu Garden • Day 3: Shanghai Disneyland or visit a local family • Day 4: Zhujiajiao Water Town in Shanghai, then fly to Zhangjiajie • Days 5–7: Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, a Red RockRidge climbing experience, and a biking tour into local villages • Day 8: Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon with its glass bridge and Baofeng Lake • Day 9: Tianmen Mountain and departure 4. Where to Stay in Shanghai and Zhangjiajie For a first visit to Shanghai, we highly recommend staying in two areas during your time there: the Bund (Puxi area) and Lujiazui (Pudong area). Both of these areas are near popular attractions and you could easily explore the city further on your own after a formal sightseeing day. Read more on The 8 Best Shanghai Neighborhoods to Stay In to suit your interests. Compared to Shanghai, the star-rated hotels in Zhangjiajie are not up to the same standard and are primarily centered in two areas: the downtown district and Wulingyuan town. For a well-rounded experience with convenient options, we suggest spending most of your time in Wulingyuan and staying in downtown Zhangjiajie for no more than one night for transit purposes. See detailed information about Where to Stay in Zhangjiajie: the Best Places to Stay. 5. The Best Times to Visit Shanghai and Zhangjiajie The best times to visit Shanghai and Zhangjiajie are from March to May (spring) and September to November (autumn) for optimum weather conditions. In Shanghai, most attractions are cultural sites and are barely affected by the weather. Visiting Shanghai during these periods offers mild temperatures, averaging 18°C (64°F), and fewer rainy days, which is great for outdoor activities and sightseeing. See more on the Best (and Worst) Times to Visit Shanghai. Zhangjiajie is a year-round destination too, but the best time to visit depends on your preferences. Most people tend to visit Zhangjiajie when it offers the most pleasant weather, with the added bonus of blooming flowers in spring or colorful forests in autumn. However, you would get more chances to see the mountains shrouded in fog if you visit Zhangjiajie in summer. If you are not troubled by cold weather, you would be rewarded with fewer crowds and better deals during a winter visit. For more seasonal travel information, see The Best Times to Visit Zhangjiajie. During China's summer vacations from July to August, Shanghai and Zhangjiajie are very crowded. This situation also occurs on Chinese public holidays, which are not limited to National Day holiday (October 1st–7th) and Labor Day holiday (May 1st–3rd). Make sure to avoid these periods if you can, or book as early as possible if you plan to visit during these periods. 6. What to Eat in Shanghai and Zhangjiajie Shanghai cuisine, which is also called Hu cuisine, is mainly braised, stewed, and sugared. Braised pork in brown sauce (红烧肉 hóngshāo ròu /hong-shao roe/), tofu cooked with minced crab meat (蟹粉豆腐 Xièfěn dòufu /sshyeah-fnn doe-foo/), and Shanghai pan-fried pork buns (生煎包 Shēng jiān bāo /shnng-jyen bough/) are the local dishes that you must give a try. If you don't like the local cuisine, Shanghai is an international metropolis and you could always find something that suits you. Zhangjiajie's cuisine leans toward spiciness. The most popular dishes are sanxiaguo (三下锅 sān xià guō /san-sshyaa gwor/), a type of hot pot, and steamed ham. If spicy food is not your thing, most hotels offer Western food options. 7. How Much Does It Cost for a Tour to Shanghai and Zhangjiajie? Generally speaking, your time in Shanghai would cost you more than when in Zhangjiajie, as a developed metropolis and a finance center, Shanghai's cost of living is higher. • Direct flights connecting Shanghai and Zhangjiajie generally fall within the 80 to 120 USD range for an economy class ticket. • A good 4-star hotel costs about 120 USD per night in Shanghai and about 80 USD per night in Zhangjiajie (20–50% more during peak travel times). • Experiences like visiting a local family or biking cost about 40 to 70 USD per person. • Entrance tickets are normally about 10 USD, except for Shanghai Disneyland, which may cost you 80 USD for a one-day visit. A private tour in Shanghai might cost about 200–250 USD per day with 4-star hotel accommodation, whereas in Zhangjiajie, it would be approximately 180–200 USD per day. These prices include English-speaking guides, stays in 4-star hotels, entrance tickets to attractions, and private transfers, guaranteeing you a hassle-free travel experience. Considering a Shanghai-Zhangjiajie trip? Please reach out to us as soon as possible to book your tour in advance and benefit from an early bird discount, especially if traveling during peak season.