ID: 207e40551c4f8668
Title: How to Visit Wulong Karst Region from Chongqing 2026
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chongqing/attraction/wulong-karst-region.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Wulong, with its stunning natural scenery and hiking highlights, is listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. It has become one of the major attractions around Chongqing for people interested in primitive scenic areas, gorges, wildlife, and caves. • Top Things to Do • Best Time to Visit • Must-Try Food • How Long to Spend • How to Get to • Accommodation Tips Top Things to Do in Wulong You could admire diverse karst landscapes, including sky holes, gorges, caves, and montane meadows, and explore the unique local customs. 1. Witness the Stunning Sky Hole at Tiansheng Three Bridges It is the must-visit attraction in Wulong. The three natural stone bridges connecting two huge sky holes offer a spectacular view while also being perfect for photography. You could capture many cinematic photographs as it is also the filming location for many movies, such as Transformers 4. The visiting time is about 2 hours. It offers elevators and shuttle buses to save your energy, and entering from Gate 1 is recommended. With this route, you could overlook the sky hole and enjoy a perfect photo spot that allows you to shoot the sky hole and a hidden but beautiful quadrangle courtyard together. The stunning sky hole at Tiansheng Three Bridges 2. Marvel at the Karst Valley in Longshuixia Gorge Longshuixia Gorge, also called Ground Crack, offers more refreshing and secluded scenery, which is best for viewing waterfalls and ravine streams. You would enjoy a breathtaking experience of traversing beneath the ground while trekking along the cliffside path. The stone bridge in front of the waterfall is a perfect spot for taking outdoor photos filled with freedom and nature. It also takes about 2–3 hours to visit. However, you'd better wear waterproof shoes as the roads are relatively slippery and you are likely to encounter dripping water along the way. Tip for Visiting Tiansheng Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gorge The exit of Tiansheng Three Bridges is near the entrance of Longshuixia Gorge, so you could visit these two attractions together if you're physically active. However, for elderly people and travelers with poor strength, it would be strenuous to spend 4–5 hours trekking there. You could skip Longshuixia Gorge due to its slippery, narrow, and up-and-down roads. You could also just buy a ticket for Tiansheng Three Bridges at first. Then, after visiting, consider whether to continue and visit Longshuixia Gorge or not according to your physical strength. 3. Explore Furong Cave — a Splendid Underground Art Palace This karst cave is regarded as the most beautiful underground world in China, allowing you to admire diverse caves and various stalactite landscapes dating back 1.2 million years, such as the amazing stalactite waterfalls. It is cool in summer and warm in winter, making it ideal for visiting all year round. The touring time is about 1–2 hours due to its huge scale. You could also extend your visit by taking a 1-hour Furong River cruise outside Furong Cave. It is like experiencing a mini version of a Yangtze River cruise but you could admire more verdant and tranquil scenery. Furong Cave — a splendid underground art palace 4. Wander Into the Oriental Switzerland — Fairy Mountain Unlike many karst landscapes dominated by caves and rocky formations, Fairy Mountain showcases a pastoral sight with vast meadows and dense forests. It is perfect for families and couples to enjoy a half-day of leisurely time, such as wandering among the treetops along the skyway, taking picturesque photos on the meadows, or taking a vintage sightseeing train across the highway. If you want to enjoy the verdant meadow scenery, May to September is the best time. In winter, snow admiration and skiing activities are available. Regardless of the season, visiting on rainy days is not recommended. It would easily be foggy and humid on Fairy Mountain, and your shoes would easily get wet. Additionally, many activities such as horseback riding, grass skiing, and go-karting are unavailable during rainy times. 5. Immerse Yourself in the Impression Wulong Show Impression Wulong is a large-scale outdoor show with a background of karst scenery. Zhang Yimou is the art director and the show lasts 70 minutes. It blends some iconic humanistic elements of Chongqing, such as crying marriages, hot pots, and bangbang (carriers), allowing you to visually enjoy the unique local customs of Chongqing. You could combine visiting the nearby Tiankeng Village during the day before heading to the show at night. In addition, in summer, it is better to take mosquito repellent while visiting. 6. Return to a Leisurely and Idyllic Life in Tiankeng Village Tiankeng Village, with traditional Miao villages and terraced fields located at the bottom of a sky hole, is rare to witness in the world. If you view it from a distance, you could capture the breathtaking sight of a heart-shaped sky hole. You could also delve into the village to enjoy a slow-paced life that retreats to an idyllic rural time and explore local minority cultures, such as admiring Tujia or Miao dancing and a reed-pipe wind instrument show. Best Times to Visit Wulong The best times to visit Wulong are from June to September for the verdant and vibrant scenery and January to February for the snowy scenery. Panoramic view of the Wulong National Park landscape Spring: Best for Revitalizing Scenery and a Tranquil Vibe Early spring may not be ideal for visiting Wulong as the scenery may appear a little bleak. However, from mid-April, the scenery becomes revitalized as the weather warms up, making it ideal for exploring Tiansheng Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gorge with fewer visitors. Fairy Mountain is also pleasant to visit in late April and May with green forests and meadows. You could fly a kite and experience grass skiing. However, you may also experience slight rain, leading to misty weather. Summer: Best for Visiting All Attractions In Wulong, summer is ideal for escaping the heat at most attractions. The temperature changes from 40°C (104°F) heat in Chongqing to a cooler 25°C (77°F) in Wulong. Tiansheng Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gorge offer the most verdant sights and spectacular waterfalls and streams with abundant water. Fairy Mountain is also in its most beautiful season, and it is best for enjoying music festivals, picnics, and camping. However, summer is also the peak season. You may encounter 1–2 hours of waiting in lines for the shuttle bus and elevators at Tiansheng Three Bridges. Autumn: Best for Admiring Red Leaves If you prefer admiring red leaves, Tiansheng Three Bridges and Fairy Mountain in late October and early November are the perfect viewing spots. The moderate temperature also makes it suitable to take a Furong River cruise. You are more likely to experience foggy weather in the second half of autumn, especially on Fairy Mountain with its higher elevation. The grass there may also turn yellow and partly wither during this time. Winter: Best for Snowscapes on Fairy Mountain The best place to visit in Wulong during winter is Fairy Mountain on snowy days. You could admire beautiful rime ice and enjoy skiing, but remember to keep warm as the temperature may drop to minus degrees. It doesn't snow all the time but snowfall is more frequent from late December to early February. At Tiansheng Three Bridges, you may also see a snow-covered landscape. Furong Cave is also ideal for visiting with relatively warm temperatures in the cave. Tiansheng Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gorge are less ideal for visiting due to there being less water and fewer verdant sights. However, the sights still remain spectacular and you could enjoy fewer visitors. 7-Day Chongqing and Chengdu Tour with Wulong and Dazu Chongqing - Chengdu -Wulong - Dazu 7-Day Chongqing and Chengdu Tour with Wulong and Dazu Chongqing - Chengdu -Wulong - Dazu 7-Day Chongqing and Chengdu Tour with Wulong and Dazu Chongqing - Chengdu -Wulong - Dazu Must-Try Food in Wulong • Mutton in small bowls碗碗羊肉: Mutton is Wulong's most distinctive food. This thinly sliced lamb served with a fragrant broth and seasonings in a small bowl is very aromatic. • Yangjiao dried tofu羊角豆干: This can be served cold in a salad, stir-fried, or braised. It also makes a great gift to share with your family or friends. • Sweet potato noodles苕粉: These noodles are smooth and pleasantly chewy, making them ideal for a hot pot. If you prefer a milder flavor, you might want to try Wulong rice noodles. You could find many restaurants in Fairy Mountain Town, the biggest and most popular accommodation hub in Wulong. However, the food may be less authentic and slightly more expensive as it is located in the scenic area. For more local and authentic Wulong cuisine or snacks, it's best to head to the city center. How Long to Spend in Wulong Typically, it requires 1–2 days to visit Wulong. • For a day trip, you could explore the must-visit Tiansheng Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gorge. • For a 2-day trip, you could also go to Fairy Mountain and Furong Cave. A day trip from Chongqing to Wulong is feasible but we do not recommend it as the itinerary would be very tiring, especially if you travel by public transportation as you may have to get up early at 6 or 7am. Recommended itinerary: • Day 1: Chongqing arrival • Day 2: Chongqing city highlights • Days 3–4: Wulong • Day 5: Chongqing departure 11-Day Yunnan and Chongqing Natural Wonders TourMeet Wonderland and Heritage 11-Day Yunnan and Chongqing Natural Wonders TourMeet Wonderland and Heritage 11-Day Yunnan and Chongqing Natural Wonders TourMeet Wonderland and Heritage How to Get to Wulong Karst Region from Chongqing Wulong has a train station: Wulong Railway Station. It serves bullet trains (2 hours) and regular trains (2–3 hours) to and from Chongqing. After arriving at the station, you should take a shuttle bus to Fairy Mountain Tourist Center, which is the transit point to most attractions in Wulong. You could also take a direct bus to Fairy Mountain Tourist Center. However, it may be a challenge for non-Chinese speakers. If you want a hassle-free trip without many transfers, a private car is recommended for its convenience and flexibility. Traveling Around Wulong You could take a shuttle bus from the tourist center to reach all the attractions in Wulong. However, the round-trip transportation to and from Tiansheng Three Bridges, Longshuixia Gorge, and Fairy Mountain can only be done by shuttle bus. For Furong Cave or Impression Wulong, you could also use a private car or taxi. However, taxis in Wulong tend to be more expensive than in other areas. Accommodation Tips for Wulong Fairy Mountain Town is the most popular place to stay in Wulong, offering great facilities, beautiful scenery, and diverse dining options. It is close to the most attractions, with the tourist center located there, making transportation convenient. To admire the snow in winter, choose a hotel with underfloor heating to keep warmer. If you visit in late October or November, we recommend staying on Ginkgo Avenue in Fairy Town to enjoy rows of golden ginkgo trees right outside your hotel. For a more cost-effective option or a taste of local life and food, you could stay in Wulong city center, but it requires a 30-minute drive to Fairy Mountain Town for a transfer before visiting the attractions.