ID: 17d776d51f4e5e36
Title: Fuxian Lake Travel Guide-Not Only the Underwater City
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/kunming/attraction/fuxian-lake.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Fuxian Lake, located in Yunnan, is one of the deepest lakes in China. Maybe your first impression of Fuxian Lake is the mysterious underwater city or dangerous cliff-level water. However, this beautiful lake also has much to explore. It sees fewer visitors but offers enchanting scenery, with deep-blue water, seashore-like beaches (especially the rare red beach) and diverse water activities from relaxing, thrilling to kid-friendly, best for all ages to visit. If you're looking for a relaxing or family trip around Kunming, Fuxian Lake could be a great choice. • Location: Yuxi, Yunnan, China (1 hour drive from Kunming) • Depth:159 meters (522 feet) • Highlights: red or white beaches, water activities • Time to Spend: 1-2 days • Best Time to Visit: all year round • What to See at Fuxian Lake • Best Time to Visit Fuxian Lake • How Long to Spend at Fuxian Lake • How to Get to Fuxian Lake from Kunming • Accommodation Tips for Fuxian Lake • Must-Try Food at Fuxian Lake • Is the Underwater City Real? • Fuxian Lake, Dianchi Lake, and Lugu Lake What to See at Fuxian Lake Visiting Fuxian Lake could be divided into the west and east shore. On both shores, you could enjoy beaches, water activities (swimming is also allowed), flowers, and taking excellent photos. The beautiful lake with its sharp cliff water level may make you forget its danger. You could clearly see the layered colors of the lake on the shore. Be careful when entering the water as the cliff is only a few steps away from the shore. West Shore: Sunrise Viewing, More Classic Attractions The attractions are relatively scattered along the west shore of Fuxian Lake, but most of them are classic spots and deserve spending more time to explore. The west shore is also best for viewing a sunrise. Red Beach It is Fuxian Lake's most popular spot on the Internet and is best for you to capture amazing photogenic pictures with dreamy rusty red sands, and even seagulls during winter. Red Beach in Fuxian Lake Luchong Scenic Area Luchong is a must-visit attraction at Fuxian Lake with diverse experiences. It offers golden beaches with verdant picturesque trees that are perfect for photos and sunshades. With convenient transport and dining options, it is more suitable for a family. You could also take 10 minutes to climb Beacon Hill, rewarding yourself with a fantastic bird's-eye view of the blue lake. Activities: sailboats, pedalos, sand digging, water-running balls, and diving Activities: sailboats, pedalos, sand digging, water-running balls, and diving Mingxing Fish Cave It is also one of the most beautiful spots with the most crystal-clear water. You could clearly see the layered colors of the lake due to the cliff water level, making it more breathtaking for water activities. For photo enthusiasts, you could not miss the social-media famous café, Seain Coffee, which offers an atmospheric setting and lakefront window views, perfect for taking fabulous portraits or scenery shots. However, an entry fee is required (equivalent to the price of a cup of coffee). Thrilling sailboat experience in Fuxian Lake with cliff water level Activities: sailboats, diving, and kayaking Activities: sailboats, diving, and kayaking Fuhaiwan Wetland Park Half lake scenery and half flower fields, this area creates an oil painting hue for photos. You could also find lavender fields. April is the best time to admire the most spectacular colorful flower fields. Gushan Island (Lonely Island) There are more historical buildings on the island, which are best for photography. But we don't recommend landing on the island as the buildings are in some disrepair and are more beautiful to see from a distance. You could take a boat trip around the island or just stay in the sunshine on the beach, which faces the island, making it the best viewing spot. East Shore: Best for Viewing Sunsets The east shore has relatively concentrated attractions and is best for admiring a sunset. Along the shore, you could hire a pedalo to enjoy a sunset over the lake, which could be a unique experience. Moon Bay The Maldives-like white sand beach with coconut trees allows you to immerse yourself in a charming "island getaway" under the straw sunshades with a lounge chair. Moon Bay with Maldives-like scenery Sakura Valley It is the largest area for sakura viewing. It is best for admiring spring sakura in March or winter sakura in late December or early January. It also offers a golden bathing beach if you seek a place with diverse activities but fewer visitors. However, the scenery is not as beautiful as that in Luchong or Mingxing Fish Cave, so you may consider skipping it if you're not visiting during the sakura season. Activities: sailboats, beach volleyball, trampolining, pedalo boats, helicopter rides, and sand-digging Activities: sailboats, beach volleyball, trampolining, pedalo boats, helicopter rides, and sand-digging Cambrian Town It is a kid's paradise with an enjoyable theme park, a spectacular circus show, and a dolphin show. You could also visit Asia's only fossil museum, offering abundant fun to kids and the best photogenic spots for you to enjoy. Sun Mountain Town With its European-style designs, it's easy for you to snap Nordic-inspired photos. You could also walk along the lakeside boardwalk stretching from the hillside, which is an internet-famous photo spot. Sunset moments are recommended, offering more atmospheric scenery. S-Bay in Dawan Village S-Bay is one of the best spots to admire a sunset. You could park your car by the roadside and find small coffee carts offering seating and cozy tents to enjoy the lakeside sunset while sipping coffee. Splendid sunset in Fuxian Lake Location tip: Navigate to Fuxian Lake Viewing Platform, drive 200 meters (656 feet) further, and then take the uphill fork to reach S-Bay. Location tip: Navigate to Fuxian Lake Viewing Platform, drive 200 meters (656 feet) further, and then take the uphill fork to reach S-Bay. Unlike the sandy shore, you could see a large wetland landscape and a stone bank in Xianhu Bay. It is also a pleasant spot to enjoy water activities, with a quieter environment and fewer visitors. Activities: sailboats, paragliding, and diving Activities: sailboats, paragliding, and diving Best Time to Visit Fuxian Lake Fuxian Lake enjoys moderate weather year-round without bitter cold or torrid heat, making it suitable to visit all year as long as the weather is sunny. Beautiful Fuxian Lake on a sunny day Spring (March to May): Spring enjoys fewer visitors and comfortable temperatures. It is best for viewing spring sakura and colorful flower fields. Summer (June to August): It is ideal to enjoy a cool summer with temperatures of 20–25°C (68–77°F). Even in the peak season, it is not crowded but has more cloudy days (typically with showers). As it is the lotus season, you could savor many lotus snacks, such as steamed lotus cakes. Autumn (September to November): Autumn is a little cooler than summer but it enjoys more clear days. It is also the best season to taste lotus root cuisine. In November, you could admire redwoods with gradient colors near Red Beach. Winter (December to February): Winter at Fuxian Lake is mild with comfortable air humidity and temperatures around 10–19°C (50–66°F). It is the blueberry season and also perfect for seagull viewing, admiring winter sakura, and enjoying hot springs. How Long to Spend at Fuxian Lake Spending 1–2 days at Fuxian Lake is enough, making it a good retreat from Kunming. We recommend spending at least 2 days there, giving you a more leisurely travel pace to fully visit Fuxian Lake and immerse yourself in the beautiful scenery and activities. Here is the recommended itinerary: • Day 1: Kunming arrival • Day 2: Fuxian Lake: visit the east shore • Day 3: Fuxian Lake: visit the west shore • Day 4: Return to Kunming for your departure If you have limited time, a day trip is also possible. Visiting several main attractions could ensure a more leisurely experience. Alternatively, you could also visit all of the attractions but could only spend 10–30 minutes at each spot for photos, leaving less or even no time for water activities. How to Get to Fuxian Lake from Kunming It takes about 1 hour to reach Fuxian Lake from Kunming by private car or taxi. If you travel by public transportation, you could depart from Kunming Bus Station to Chengjiang Bus Station (45–60 minutes), then transfer to Luchong Village by another bus (30 minutes). Bullet trains are also available but you could only get to Yuxi Railway Station from Kunming, then you would need a transfer. It is farther to transfer to Fuxian Lake from Yuxi. Tips for Transportation at Fuxian Lake The most convenient option to travel around Fuxian Lake is by chartering a car or driving yourself, offering flexibility and convenience. Taxis are also available but it might be challenging to find one at attractions with fewer visitors. If you know how to use Chinese ride-hailing apps, you could use DiDi or Gaode Maps to hail one. It would also be convenient. You could also take a circular bus around the lake, with the East and West Lines covering all major attractions. The buses run every half an hour. If you prefer a more hassle-free trip, we recommend a private tour. With a private tour, you could be escorted directly from Kunming to Fuxian Lake. A local guide and private car would be on standby during your whole trip and care for you or your family's needs. Just contact us if you are planning a trip to Fuxian Lake or if you have any questions. Accommodation Tips for Fuxian Lake For better scenic views and luxury/high-end hotels, stay around Sun Mountain Town, Xiaowan Village, or Moon Bay. Sun Mountain Town has a European-style vibe, while Xiaowan Village has a Santorini style. Both are perfect for photos and offer more upscale boutique or villa hotels with great lake-view rooms. Moon Bay has more apartment hotels close to the beach but the facilities are relatively older. Hilton Hotel on the lakeshore of Fuxian Lake The Hilton Hotel near Sun Mountain Town is highly recommended. It's one of the best lakeside hotels offering child services. You could also enjoy a gorgeous sunset while having a buffet at the hotel. The Hilton Hotel near Sun Mountain Town is highly recommended. It's one of the best lakeside hotels offering child services. You could also enjoy a gorgeous sunset while having a buffet at the hotel. For a more cost-effective option, you could consider staying in Guanglong Town or Starry Town. If you prefer a lively atmosphere and convenient dining and accommodation, Guanglong Town is more popular and offers a wide range of options. However, there are no direct lakeside views. Starry Town has a good environment but fewer amenities and is more remote. It is better for camping and barbecues. Must-Try Food at Fuxian Lake At Fuxian Lake, you could savor various delicious fish dishes thanks to its excellent water quality and abundant fishing. The most popular dishes are stone pot fish and fish in copper pots. Other local food, such as braised rice with potatoes, small pot rice noodles, and lotus food, are also popular, as well as Yunnan cuisine, such as a mushroom hot pot. Local products, such as saltwater fish, dried silver fish, and lotus root powder, make great souvenirs. In addition, the fresh fragrant blueberries, known for their sweet, crunchy texture and large size, are also a must-try. The recommended spot is Guanglong Town with more dining options and also a Thai-style Starlight Night Market with lots of snacks. Alternatively, you could head to Luchong Scenic Area for both sightseeing and food, and the local market for souvenirs. Legends of Fuxian Lake: the Mystery of an Underwater City In 2000, a diver found possible ancient ruins underwater at Fuxian Lake, but exploration was mysteriously interrupted. Since then, the underwater city remains shrouded in doubt. Are the relics of the ancient Dian Kingdom real or just a myth? The truth is still waiting to be uncovered. There are also stories of giant fish and glowing halos at night, and strange phenomenon where fish from Fuxian Lake and Xingyun Lake never cross paths. Regardless of the legends, they all add to Fuxian Lake's mysterious charm, drawing numerous visitors eager to explore its mystery. Fuxian Lake, Dian Lake, and Lugu Lake: How to Choose Between Them All are popular lakes with pleasant scenery in Yunnan, and good places to admire seagulls in winter. But how should you choose between these lakes when deciding which to visit? If you are looking for a place around Kunming to relax for 1–2 days with your family, Fuxian Lake is the perfect option with more attractions, water activities, and kids' activities as well as photogenic spots. Dianchi Lake is best for viewing seagulls during winter. If you want to witness spectacular seagulls or have limited time in Kunming, you could take 2–3 hours to visit Dianchi Lake. Lugu Lake is a hidden gem located in Lijiang, about a 4-hour drive from the city. It is pleasant to visit for 2–3 days if you prefer a tranquil and peaceful vibe or want to explore minority cultures.