ID: 4a7c0d433989147c
Title: Top 6 Vegetarian Restaurants in Xi'an (Recommended by a Local Guide)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xian/restaurants/vegetarian-restaurants.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Xi'an is an open and inclusive tourist city that is also very friendly to vegetarians. With many temples in the area, there is a large number of vegetarian restaurants nearby. There are six excellent vegetarian restaurants in Xi'an, along with some self-service vegetarian eateries offering a wide variety of dishes at affordable prices. All of these options can cater to your diverse vegetarian needs. As a local guide with over 20 years of experience, I frequently encounter vegetarians and have taken them to various vegetarian restaurants. From these experiences, I have selected some vegetarian-friendly establishments to introduce to you. Whether you are a vegan or a vegetarian, you can enjoy a delightful dining experience in Xi'an. Susan Yang 20 Years as a Local Guide in Xi'an Personally, I like June and January best. Yes, you read that right. I like cold January. If you can stand the cold, January is the season with the fewest tourists and you may also have the chance to see the snow scenery in Xi'an. In June, students are busy preparing for exams nervously, and parents would also accompany their children to get ready for the exams. Therefore, June could be regarded as the offseason with not many tourists. However, the temperature starts to rise. It's a bit hot, but not too hot. If you prefer the seasons with a pleasant temperature, then visit in April and October. These are the months when the perceived temperature is the most comfortable, but there are relatively more tourists. 20 Years as a Local Guide in Xi'an Personally, I like June and January best. Yes, you read that right. I like cold January. If you can stand the cold, January is the season with the fewest tourists and you may also have the chance to see the snow scenery in Xi'an. In June, students are busy preparing for exams nervously, and parents would also accompany their children to get ready for the exams. Therefore, June could be regarded as the offseason with not many tourists. However, the temperature starts to rise. It's a bit hot, but not too hot. If you prefer the seasons with a pleasant temperature, then visit in April and October. These are the months when the perceived temperature is the most comfortable, but there are relatively more tourists. • 1. Lotus • 2. Zen Freedom • 3. Shangdao Vegetarian • 4. An Duo Vegetarian Dishes • 5. Tianlong Baoyan Vegetarian Restaurant • 6. Suxin Tea Restaurant • Location: Northwest corner of the 2nd floor, Building F, Hesheng Jingguang Center, Fenglin Road, Xi'an High-tech Zone. • Average Cost per Person: 500-1000 CNY • Reservation Hotline: +86 29-88810325 • English Service: Basic English communication available • Vegan-Friendly: This restaurant fully accommodates vegans, with no eggs, dairy products, or honey in the dishes. • Nearby Attractions: The High-tech Zone is a commercial area that is relatively far from the cultural district and old town, with no tourist attractions nearby. The closest is the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda, about a 30-minute drive away. However, if you're a vegetarian passionate about delicious food, it's worth the trip. This restaurant places a strong emphasis on service. All dishes are served as set meals on separate plates for each person. The serving sequence is also thoughtfully arranged, progressing from appetizers to main courses and finally desserts, creating a ceremonial dining experience. It can be considered a high-end restaurant. I personally recommend the following dishes: Wild Mushroom Garden (野菌花园), Gorgon Fruit with Sweet Peas and Peach Gum (美人米甜蜜豆配桃胶), and Crispy Cone with Boletus Mushrooms, Dried Apricots, and Quinoa (脆筒牛肝菌配杏干藜麦). Recommended Xian Tours 12-Day Classic China Tour with Panda Recommended Xian Tours • 12-Day Classic China Tour with Panda 2. Zen Freedom 禅自在素食酒店 • Location: 2nd Floor, Jiezuo Plaza, No. 4, South Fenghui Road, Yanta District. • Average Cost per Person: 125 CNY • Reservation Hotline: +86 29-89623888 • English Service: Basic English communication available • Vegan-Friendly: This restaurant fully accommodates vegans, with no eggs, dairy products, or honey in the dishes. • Nearby Attractions: The restaurant is relatively close to the City Wall, approximately a 20-minute drive from the West Gate. The ambiance is unique and imbued with a sense of Zen. This restaurant engages in charitable activities, such as releasing captive animals, assisting the disabled, and conducting disaster relief and poverty alleviation initiatives. Their slogan is "As long as life endures, public welfare never ceases." The prices are very affordable. I particularly enjoy their Peach Gum and White Fungus (桃胶银耳), "Fortune Guaranteed" (包君生财)—cooked dishes wrapped in lettuce—and "Purple Gold Alms Bowl" (紫金钵盂)—stewed tofu. Peach Gum and White Fungus 3. Shangdao Vegetarian 上道素食 • Location: No. 12, Beihuo Lane, Beilin District. • Average Cost per Person: 120 CNY • Reservation Hotline: +86 13891962221 • English Service: Basic English communication available • Vegan-Friendly: This restaurant fully accommodates vegans, with no eggs, dairy products, or honey in the dishes. • Nearby Attractions: Located within the Eight Immortals Temple, a Taoist temple that attracts many pilgrims on the first and fifteenth days of the lunar calendar, who come to offer incense and enjoy the vegetarian food. The dishes here often feature various mushrooms. Locals say, "If you want to get a lucky lot, come to the Eight Immortals Temple." I especially recommend the Braised Tofu with Mushrooms (香菌烧豆腐) and Crab-Flavored Mushrooms with Lemongrass (柠檬草蟹味菇). Braised Tofu with Mushrooms Recommended Xian Tours 1-Day Terracotta Warriors and Ancient City Wall Tour 8-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai Private Tour Recommended Xian Tours • 1-Day Terracotta Warriors and Ancient City Wall Tour • 8-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai Private Tour 4. An Duo Vegetarian Dishes 安多素食 • Location: No. 136, Northwest First Road, Lianhu District, Xi'an (Opposite Guangren Temple) • Average Cost per Person: 110 CNY • Reservation Hotline: 029-87330205 • English Service: Basic English communication available • Vegan-Friendly: This restaurant fully accommodates vegans, with no eggs, dairy products, or honey in the dishes. • Nearby Attractions: The restaurant is opposite Guangren Temple, the largest Tibetan Buddhist temple in Shaanxi Province, attracting many pilgrims and tourists. Located by a Lama temple, An Duo is an excellent place to take it all in and dine with the locals. Even the nearby monks and nuns sometimes find it too hard to resist An Duo's tempting dishes! This clean and comfortable restaurant maintains a traditional style, complete with old-fashioned furniture and light fixtures, and never ceases to surprise its patrons with high-quality mouthwatering food. The All Stars Surrounding the Moon Soup (众星捧月羹) has a subtle herbal fragrance and a smooth texture, while Tian Su Roast Goose (天素烧鹅) is a must-order dish for every table. All Stars Surrounding the Moon Soup 5. Tianlong Baoyan Vegetarian Restaurant 天龙宝严素食馆 • Location: No. 55, Xing Shan West Street, Yanta District, Xi'an • Average Cost per Person: 100 CNY • Reservation Hotline: 029-85266880 • English Service: Basic English communication available • Vegan-Friendly: This restaurant fully accommodates vegans, with no eggs, dairy products, or honey in the dishes. • Nearby Attractions: Located within Daxingshan Temple, an imperial temple from the Tang Dynasty with over 1,000 years of history, still popular among worshippers. It is very close to both the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda and the South Gate of the City Wall. It is located beside a temple where you can experience the special local culture. Sometimes monks come here for dinner. The furniture and lights are of an old-fashioned style and the environment is clean and comfortable. Signature dishes include Sweet and Sour Pork (咕咾肉) and Boiled Fish in Spicy Sauce (水煮鱼). Boiled Fish in Spicy Sauce 6. Suxin Tea Restaurant 素心茶房*禅意素食（小寨店） • Location: No. 01, 20th Floor, Dongfang Hotel, 393 Zhuque Avenue. • Average Cost per Person: 110 CNY • Reservation Hotline: 13002984515 • English Service: Basic English communication available • Vegan-Friendly: This restaurant fully accommodates vegans, with no eggs, dairy products, or honey in the dishes. • Nearby Attractions: It is very close to both the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda and the South Gate of the City Wall, and not far from the old urban area—approximately a 10-minute drive. The transportation is convenient, and the environment in this restaurant is pleasant. Must-try dishes include Mock Crab (赛螃蟹) and Stir-fried Eggs with Jasmine Flowers (茉莉花炒鸡蛋). By the way, this is a chain restaurant with six branches in Xi'an. Here are the addresses and phone numbers of the other five branches: • Shops on the 3rd floor, Building 42, Hairong Mingcheng, Fengcheng 9th Road, Weiyang District, Xi'an. 029-86197072 (Approximately a 20-minute drive from the North Gate of the City Wall). • The 2nd floor, Silk Road Style Street, Datang West Market, Lianhu District, Xi'an City. 029-89639890 (Located in Datang West Market, just a few minutes' walk from the Datang West Market Museum). • Room 401, 4th Floor, Catering Building, Area B, Zhongmao Plaza, No. 118, North Chang'an Road, Beilin District, Xi'an. 029-63393117, 18192167076 (Very close to both the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda and the South Gate of the City Wall). • No. 402, Longhu Xingyuehui, No. 888, North Xin Kaimen Road, Qujiang New District, Xi'an. 15664949278 (Very close to the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda). • The 4th floor, Building 2, Tai'ao Plaza, Fenghe Road, Lianhu District, Xi'an. 029-81515259 (Very close to both the West Gate of the City Wall). If you want every meal in Xi'an to be vegetarian, just contact us. We will plan the attractions and nearby vegetarian restaurants according to your needs so that you can enjoy your visit in Xi'an.