ID: d1c12360d1b5e5a
Title: 3-Hour Xi'an Biang Biang Noodles Cooking Class
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/xian/3-hour-xian-biangbiang-noodles-cooking-class.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ China is the homeland of noodles, and the earliest record of noodles in China shows they have a history of 4,000 years. Due to the different methods of preparation and the use of varying ingredients, there are over 1,000 types of noodle, each with local characteristics. In Shaanxi, "biangbiang noodles" are quite famous not only for their flavor but also for the Chinese character "biang" in the name. The noodles got their name from the sound "biang biang", which occurs when they're being made. The noodles are about 2–3 centimeters wide and 1 meter long, like a belt, which is why they are also called "belt noodles". Join in our 3-hour biangbiang noodles cooking class to make it by yourself and enjoy a noodle feast. After class, you can enjoy the night beauty of the City Wall cause our class is held in an old neighborhood under the roots of the Xi'an City Wall. Tour Highlights Cooking class is held in a local family and feel the enthusiasm of Xi'an people. Learn how to write the most perplexing Chinese character "biang". Know Chinese noodles history and culture from English-speaking chef. Friendly chef will teach you how to make biangbiang noodles hand by hand. The Design of the Day Trip Local Chef: Our guides are grew up in Xi'an, friendly with fluent English-speaking skills Location: At a local family where is near the City Wall in the city center of Xi'an. Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the activities to ensure a enjoyable experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Please arrive at the meeting point by yourself ON TIME. 8:00 - 11:00 AM or 3:00 - 6:00 PM Cooking Class and Enjoy the Meal First of all, we will visit the local spice market and discover local ingredients or spices that will be used in the cooking class. Arrive at the local's home, you will be served with a cup of fresh green tea to relax a little. Then start to make today's main dish——Biangbiang noodles. We will prepare the flour dough first by mixing the water and flour in a certain ratio. Then press the dough into round flat shape and cut it into strips. Now comes the most important part, pull the strips into long thin noodles. This requires a lot of strength and technique. The chef will teach you hand by hand. Mix the water and flour Press the dough Finishing the pulling, the noodles are ready for boiling. Then we will make a unique sauce for Biangbiang noodles, mixed with long beans, tomatos, spiced tofu, eggs and some condiments. Cover the boiled noodles with prepared sauces and pour hot oil on it. If you don't like spicy flavour, please let the chef know. Ingredients for making sauce Biang Biang noodles are done Just enjoy your hand-made noodles feast when all this comes to an end. In addition to revealing the secrets of how to pull the noodles, you will have a chance to be taught how to write the most complicating Chinese character "biang". Enjoy the meal Have a nice cooking class Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any allergy or food preferences at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 11:30 AM or 6:30 PMWalk Along The City Wall After the whole experience , you can walk along the City Wall by yourself and experience the life of the old Xi'an people. The chef would love to introduce some knowledges of Xi'an and visiting route, but she/he will not be accompanied with you for visiting. Night view of the City Wall Price Include: Cooking class fee. Friendly English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Hotel pickup and drop-off services. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. China is the homeland of noodles, and the earliest record of noodles in China shows they have a history of 4,000 years. Due to the different methods of preparation and the use of varying ingredients, there are over 1,000 types of noodle, each with local characteristics. In Shaanxi, "biangbiang noodles" are quite famous not only for their flavor but also for the Chinese character "biang" in the name. The noodles got their name from the sound "biang biang", which occurs when they're being made. The noodles are about 2–3 centimeters wide and 1 meter long, like a belt, which is why they are also called "belt noodles". Join in our 3-hour biangbiang noodles cooking class to make it by yourself and enjoy a noodle feast. After class, you can enjoy the night beauty of the City Wall cause our class is held in an old neighborhood under the roots of the Xi'an City Wall. China is the homeland of noodles, and the earliest record of noodles in China shows they have a history of 4,000 years. Due to the different methods of preparation and the use of varying ingredients, there are over 1,000 types of noodle, each with local characteristics. In Shaanxi, "biangbiang noodles" are quite famous not only for their flavor but also for the Chinese character "biang" in the name. The noodles got their name from the sound "biang biang", which occurs when they're being made. The noodles are about 2–3 centimeters wide and 1 meter long, like a belt, which is why they are also called "belt noodles". Join in our 3-hour biangbiang noodles cooking class to make it by yourself and enjoy a noodle feast. After class, you can enjoy the night beauty of the City Wall cause our class is held in an old neighborhood under the roots of the Xi'an City Wall. Tour Highlights Cooking class is held in a local family and feel the enthusiasm of Xi'an people. Learn how to write the most perplexing Chinese character "biang". Know Chinese noodles history and culture from English-speaking chef. Friendly chef will teach you how to make biangbiang noodles hand by hand. • Cooking class is held in a local family and feel the enthusiasm of Xi'an people. • Learn how to write the most perplexing Chinese character "biang". • Know Chinese noodles history and culture from English-speaking chef. • Friendly chef will teach you how to make biangbiang noodles hand by hand. The Design of the Day Trip Local Chef: Our guides are grew up in Xi'an, friendly with fluent English-speaking skills Location: At a local family where is near the City Wall in the city center of Xi'an. Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the activities to ensure a enjoyable experience. The Design of the Day Trip • Local Chef: Our guides are grew up in Xi'an, friendly with fluent English-speaking skills • Location: At a local family where is near the City Wall in the city center of Xi'an. • Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice • Professional product team analysis on every part of the activities to ensure a enjoyable experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Please arrive at the meeting point by yourself ON TIME. 8:00 - 11:00 AM or 3:00 - 6:00 PM Cooking Class and Enjoy the Meal First of all, we will visit the local spice market and discover local ingredients or spices that will be used in the cooking class. Arrive at the local's home, you will be served with a cup of fresh green tea to relax a little. Then start to make today's main dish——Biangbiang noodles. We will prepare the flour dough first by mixing the water and flour in a certain ratio. Then press the dough into round flat shape and cut it into strips. Now comes the most important part, pull the strips into long thin noodles. This requires a lot of strength and technique. The chef will teach you hand by hand. Mix the water and flour Press the dough Finishing the pulling, the noodles are ready for boiling. Then we will make a unique sauce for Biangbiang noodles, mixed with long beans, tomatos, spiced tofu, eggs and some condiments. Cover the boiled noodles with prepared sauces and pour hot oil on it. If you don't like spicy flavour, please let the chef know. Ingredients for making sauce Biang Biang noodles are done Just enjoy your hand-made noodles feast when all this comes to an end. In addition to revealing the secrets of how to pull the noodles, you will have a chance to be taught how to write the most complicating Chinese character "biang". Enjoy the meal Have a nice cooking class Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any allergy or food preferences at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 11:30 AM or 6:30 PMWalk Along The City Wall After the whole experience , you can walk along the City Wall by yourself and experience the life of the old Xi'an people. The chef would love to introduce some knowledges of Xi'an and visiting route, but she/he will not be accompanied with you for visiting. Night view of the City Wall Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Please arrive at the meeting point by yourself ON TIME. 8:00 - 11:00 AM or 3:00 - 6:00 PM Cooking Class and Enjoy the Meal First of all, we will visit the local spice market and discover local ingredients or spices that will be used in the cooking class. Arrive at the local's home, you will be served with a cup of fresh green tea to relax a little. Then start to make today's main dish——Biangbiang noodles. We will prepare the flour dough first by mixing the water and flour in a certain ratio. Then press the dough into round flat shape and cut it into strips. Now comes the most important part, pull the strips into long thin noodles. This requires a lot of strength and technique. The chef will teach you hand by hand. Mix the water and flour Press the dough Finishing the pulling, the noodles are ready for boiling. Then we will make a unique sauce for Biangbiang noodles, mixed with long beans, tomatos, spiced tofu, eggs and some condiments. Cover the boiled noodles with prepared sauces and pour hot oil on it. If you don't like spicy flavour, please let the chef know. Ingredients for making sauce Biang Biang noodles are done Just enjoy your hand-made noodles feast when all this comes to an end. In addition to revealing the secrets of how to pull the noodles, you will have a chance to be taught how to write the most complicating Chinese character "biang". Enjoy the meal Have a nice cooking class Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any allergy or food preferences at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 11:30 AM or 6:30 PMWalk Along The City Wall After the whole experience , you can walk along the City Wall by yourself and experience the life of the old Xi'an people. The chef would love to introduce some knowledges of Xi'an and visiting route, but she/he will not be accompanied with you for visiting. Night view of the City Wall The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Please arrive at the meeting point by yourself ON TIME. The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Please arrive at the meeting point by yourself ON TIME. You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Please arrive at the meeting point by yourself ON TIME. 8:00 - 11:00 AM or 3:00 - 6:00 PM Cooking Class and Enjoy the Meal First of all, we will visit the local spice market and discover local ingredients or spices that will be used in the cooking class. Arrive at the local's home, you will be served with a cup of fresh green tea to relax a little. Then start to make today's main dish——Biangbiang noodles. We will prepare the flour dough first by mixing the water and flour in a certain ratio. Then press the dough into round flat shape and cut it into strips. Now comes the most important part, pull the strips into long thin noodles. This requires a lot of strength and technique. The chef will teach you hand by hand. Mix the water and flour Press the dough Finishing the pulling, the noodles are ready for boiling. Then we will make a unique sauce for Biangbiang noodles, mixed with long beans, tomatos, spiced tofu, eggs and some condiments. Cover the boiled noodles with prepared sauces and pour hot oil on it. If you don't like spicy flavour, please let the chef know. Ingredients for making sauce Biang Biang noodles are done Just enjoy your hand-made noodles feast when all this comes to an end. In addition to revealing the secrets of how to pull the noodles, you will have a chance to be taught how to write the most complicating Chinese character "biang". Enjoy the meal Have a nice cooking class Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any allergy or food preferences at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 - 11:00 AM or 3:00 - 6:00 PM Cooking Class and Enjoy the Meal First of all, we will visit the local spice market and discover local ingredients or spices that will be used in the cooking class. Arrive at the local's home, you will be served with a cup of fresh green tea to relax a little. Then start to make today's main dish——Biangbiang noodles. We will prepare the flour dough first by mixing the water and flour in a certain ratio. Then press the dough into round flat shape and cut it into strips. Now comes the most important part, pull the strips into long thin noodles. This requires a lot of strength and technique. The chef will teach you hand by hand. Mix the water and flour Press the dough Finishing the pulling, the noodles are ready for boiling. Then we will make a unique sauce for Biangbiang noodles, mixed with long beans, tomatos, spiced tofu, eggs and some condiments. Cover the boiled noodles with prepared sauces and pour hot oil on it. If you don't like spicy flavour, please let the chef know. Ingredients for making sauce Biang Biang noodles are done Just enjoy your hand-made noodles feast when all this comes to an end. In addition to revealing the secrets of how to pull the noodles, you will have a chance to be taught how to write the most complicating Chinese character "biang". Enjoy the meal Have a nice cooking class Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any allergy or food preferences at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. First of all, we will visit the local spice market and discover local ingredients or spices that will be used in the cooking class. Arrive at the local's home, you will be served with a cup of fresh green tea to relax a little. Then start to make today's main dish——Biangbiang noodles. We will prepare the flour dough first by mixing the water and flour in a certain ratio. Then press the dough into round flat shape and cut it into strips. Now comes the most important part, pull the strips into long thin noodles. This requires a lot of strength and technique. The chef will teach you hand by hand. Mix the water and flour Finishing the pulling, the noodles are ready for boiling. Then we will make a unique sauce for Biangbiang noodles, mixed with long beans, tomatos, spiced tofu, eggs and some condiments. Cover the boiled noodles with prepared sauces and pour hot oil on it. If you don't like spicy flavour, please let the chef know. Ingredients for making sauce Biang Biang noodles are done Just enjoy your hand-made noodles feast when all this comes to an end. In addition to revealing the secrets of how to pull the noodles, you will have a chance to be taught how to write the most complicating Chinese character "biang". Have a nice cooking class Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any allergy or food preferences at the time of booking. • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 11:30 AM or 6:30 PMWalk Along The City Wall After the whole experience , you can walk along the City Wall by yourself and experience the life of the old Xi'an people. The chef would love to introduce some knowledges of Xi'an and visiting route, but she/he will not be accompanied with you for visiting. Night view of the City Wall 11:30 AM or 6:30 PMWalk Along The City Wall After the whole experience , you can walk along the City Wall by yourself and experience the life of the old Xi'an people. The chef would love to introduce some knowledges of Xi'an and visiting route, but she/he will not be accompanied with you for visiting. Night view of the City Wall After the whole experience , you can walk along the City Wall by yourself and experience the life of the old Xi'an people. The chef would love to introduce some knowledges of Xi'an and visiting route, but she/he will not be accompanied with you for visiting. Night view of the City Wall Price Include: Cooking class fee. Friendly English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Price Include: Cooking class fee. Friendly English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Price Include: Cooking class fee. Friendly English-speaking chef. Complimentary tea. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Hotel pickup and drop-off services. • Cooking class fee. • Friendly English-speaking chef. • Complimentary tea. • Personal expenses. • Hotel pickup and drop-off services. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 76 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 76 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 76 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20