ID: 73749377e5de47cb
Title: China Weather in December 2025: Places to Go and Crowds
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/weather/december.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

December could be a cost-effective time for a trip to China. China is well into a freezing winter in the north and west. Snow falls there. It is a good time for snow activities and to see snow-covered landscapes. Central China is very cold, but South China might be warm and sunny. These could be comfortable winter escapes for people in colder climates. Read on to find out how China's December climate affects tourism and our travel suggestions. • December Weather Conditions • Weather in North China • Weather in East China • Weather in South China • Weather in West China • Top 5 Places to Visit in December • Crowds and Costs Is December a Good Time to Visit China Yes. December is a great time to explore China, but the experience differs by region. In the north, it's the season for snow: Harbin's Ice and Snow Festival, ski resorts near Beijing and Changbaishan, and stunning winter scenery in places like Yellow Mountain. Expect very cold weather, but magical landscapes. In the south, the climate is much milder. Cities like Yunnan, Chengdu, Chongqing, or Guangzhou are in low season, meaning fewer crowds and better prices. You can enjoy ancient towns, riverside scenery, and local food without the peak-season rush. China Weather in December: Overview • Average daily temperature range: -2–7°C (28–45°F) • Average rainfall: 17 mm (1 in) • Average rainy days: 2 • Average sunny days: 29 Weather in North China (Beijing, Xi'an, Harbin...) In North China, the cold wind is biting and snow often covers the ground. It sometimes snows and, since it is so cold, the snow remains for a long time and accumulates. Therefore, it is a good time to view stunning snowy scenery. Almost all of the ski resorts are open in December. Harbin's Ice and Snow World also opens at the end of December. Clothing: You would need an extra-thick coat and layers of clothing to stay warm as well as gloves and a warm hat. Wear water-resistant shoes with good traction. See our popular 8-Day Beijng and Harbin Winter Family Tour Weather in South China (Guilin, Hong Kong...) In major contrast to every other big city in China, Hong Kong gets ideal weather: warm, sunny, light breezes, clear skies, and little rain. Sightseeing, shopping, and outdoor activities are all the more enjoyable when it is dry and sunny. The rest of South China generally has a pleasant winter with plentiful sunshine but Guilin feels cold because of the high humidity and mountain altitudes although it rarely freezes in the valleys. Clothing: A thin coat or jacket and perhaps some rain gear would be adequate. In Guilin, however, wear a thicker jacket and dress in layers for comfort. Check out our 14-Day Guangzhou, Shanghai, Beijing, Xi'an, and Zhangjiajie Tour Weather in West China (Chengdu, Tibet, Yunnan...) Many areas of Yunnan Province and Sichuan Province have pleasant winter weather with sunshine, but high-altitude areas are frigid. Tibet is generally quite cold in December. Some remote areas might be difficult to access due to heavy snowfall. However, you would usually not feel too cold during the daytime in the capital city. Lhasa experiences dry and sunny weather and enjoys the reputation of being "the city of sunlight". Clothing: Dress in layers with a coat and hat for the evenings. Wear a winter coat when in mountainous areas and Tibet. If you are interested in exploring the warm west region, see our 11-Day Yunnan and Chongqing Natural Tour Weather in East China (Shanghai, Hangzhou...) East China has cool/cold, windy, humid, and damp weather in December. Shanghai usually stays above freezing, averaging 5–11°C (41–52°F). There is little chance of snow, except in the mountains, perhaps with some falling toward the end of December. Clothing: Wear a coat, rain gear, and water-resistant shoes. See our 7-Day Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, and Hengdian Cinematic Tour Top 5 Places to Visit in China in December In December, Beijing and Harbin are recommended for their winter snow scenes and skiing experiences. For a warmer escape for your Christmas vacation, Yunnan and Hong Kong are good choices. Chengdu could also be nice for seeing pandas as well as for food lovers. While most of China is cold in winter, Yunnan in December stands out with its mild climate and sunny days. The terraced rice fields in Yuanyang transform into mirrors of golden hues, reflecting the subdued winter sun. In the historic town of Lijiang, snowcapped mountains form a stunning backdrop to the traditional Naxi architecture. You might see black-headed gulls at Erhai Lake, which have traveled all the way from northern Russia to spend their winter there. You could also take advantage of the sunny weather to ride along the edge of Erhai Lake. You could explore Shaxi Ancient Town and make a typical handicraft of the Bai ethnicity before enjoying a moderate hike along the medieval Tea Horse Road. Check out 8-Day 'Meet Yourself' Yunnan Tour Harbin Ice and Snow World In late December, Harbin's Ice and Snow World opens. It's a winter amusement park with various ice-built castles illuminated by lights, along with entertainment. At the stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve, there is also a fireworks show. You could embark on a tiger safari in the Siberian Tiger Park. You could even purchase meat or live poultry to feed the tigers. It could be a fun experience for both adults and children. Skiing is, of course, an essential experience in Harbin. You could enjoy an all-inclusive winter holiday at Club Med Yabuli. The Snow Town near Harbin is also a highlight. You could see the charming snow-covered village and experience what it's like in winter in the northern countryside. See our 5-Day Harbin and China Snow Town Tour Or you could also extend to Mohe or Changbai Mountain for a more enriching experience. If you visit the Great Wall in Beijing in December, you are very likely to view an awesome snowy scene of the wall and the mountains covered with snow. In addition, there are fewer tourists and you might have the wall to yourself. After the visit, you could unwind at a premium hot spring resort while indulging in a rejuvenating soak in the thermal waters. The Forbidden City, with its red and gold architecture, and the ancient Drum and Bell towers appear even more captivating under a gentle dusting of snow. Skiing is also one of the exciting experiences when visiting Beijing in winter. You could enjoy the thrill of skiing at Olympic-class facilities using slopes at one of China's finest ski resorts. Contact us to create a personalized itinerary for your desired destination. December in Chengdu is brimming with vitality. Historical and cultural districts, such as Jinli and the Wide and Narrow Alleys, are bustling and laced with the mist and aroma of hot pot. Even in winter, pandas remain active. Their thick fur insulates them from the cold, allowing you to witness them playing in the snow, climbing trees, and munching on bamboo in outdoor enclosures. With fewer tourists, you could have a better experience when it comes to observing pandas. You could also join in a meaningful panda volunteer program. Chengdu also offers exciting skiing experiences. You could enjoy the fun of skiing in beautiful Bipenggou National Park (3½ hours away by car) and soak in a natural mineral hot spring in a snowy wonderland. Street scenes in Hong Kong December in Hong Kong is a dry season month, and it generally has clear skies. This means that you have a better chance of enjoying clear vistas from Victoria Peak, including large cityscapes and the ocean in the distance. The city comes alive with a vibrant holiday spirit with Christmas approaching. Hong Kong Disneyland and Ocean Park offer special programs, such as Christmas shows and parades, as well as displaying decorations during the Christmas season. There are also many Christmas markets held in Hong Kong Disneyland, Yau Tsim Mong District, Causeway Bay, and Central. The Christmas season is also one of the prime times for shopping in Hong Kong. Shopping centers and malls host wonderful Christmas promotions and events. You could find more ideas on our Top Places to Visit in China in December Costs and Crowds in December December is the low travel season. But some winter destinations, such as Harbin and Hainan Island, have more tourists than usual. The cost of travel to these destinations would increase accordingly. On Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, it would be best to book a restaurant in advance. Queues at restaurants in major cities increase because many young people go out to eat and shop, counting down to greet the New Year. If you would like to have a Christmas dinner, please let us know. Your travel advisor would provide you with some restaurant suggestions or make a reservation for you. Recommended China Tours We are ready to solve the problems of planning a complex trip in an unfamiliar region for you, helping to save you time and effort while ensuring that your travel needs and desires are met. Just select Create My Trip. Or start from a recommended itinerary — all of our tours can be customized: • 8-Day China Family Winter Tour (Beijing–Harbin) • 14-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie–Guilin–Shanghai • 15-Day Shanghai–Xishuangbanna–Pu'er–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Tour • See more China Winter Tours Monthly Weather and Travel Information for China • China Weather in January • China Weather in February • China Weather in March • China Weather in April • China Weather in May • China Weather in June • China Weather in July • China Weather in August • China Weather in September • China Weather in October • China Weather in November • China Weather in December