ID: 7afda23e521dad2b
Title: How to Plan a Trip to China and Vietnam 2026
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/plan-a-trip-to-china-and-vietnam.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China and Vietnam are two countries in Asia where you could not only explore some historical sites but also enjoy stunning natural scenery with rich outdoor activities. If you are fond of Asian countryside charm, then these two countries are must-sees for your Asia trip. • How Long to Spend • Itinerary Suggestions • How to Travel between China and Vietnam • Best Times • Visa Requirements How Long to Spend in China and Vietnam Rich experiential activities and outdoor adventures are highlights of a trip to China and Vietnam. We recommend a 3-week trip, as this would allow you to have a diverse range of in-depth local experiences, such as trying on traditional Chinese Hanfu clothing, being a panda keeper for a day, paddling a traditional Vietnamese basket boat, and enjoying some relaxing beach time. If you just want to visit the most classic cities and attractions, 2 weeks are enough. Spend 1 week in China to explore the must-see Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai and 1 week in Vietnam for Hanoi, Halong Bay, Hoi An, and Ho Chi Minh City. We recommend a minimum trip duration of 14 days or longer to ensure a relaxed and unhurried schedule. Feel free to contact us to create a trip based on your travel duration, interests, and other requirements. Itinerary Suggestions (3 Options) We offer three itinerary options: the in-depth 3-week plan, the 2-week essence option, and the shorter best-balance 12-day alternative. 1. An In-Depth 3-Week China and Vietnam Itinerary Day City Activity Day 1 Beijing Arrival and rest Days 2–4 Beijing Visit the Great Wall, historical sites, and hutong Days 5–6 Xi'an Visit the Terracotta Army with a handicraft experience and enjoy a dumpling cooking class Days 7–9 Guilin Enjoy countryside views with a cruise, bamboo rafting, and biking Day 10 Shanghai Visit the Bund and Yu Garden with a Huangpu River ferry experience Day 11 Fly to Vietnam N/A Day 12 Hanoi Visit landmark buildings with a water puppet performance Days 13–14 Halong Bay Enjoy a 2-day cruise with rich onboard and water activities Days 15 Hoi An Experience rural life in Vietnam with an evening food tour Days 16–17 Da Nang Beach time Days 18–19 The Mekong Delta Visit floating markets Day 20 Ho Chi Minh City Visit historic landmarks Day 21 Ho Chi Minh City Departure This itinerary offers rich adventures and laid-back experiences. It is an excellent choice for active couples who have more time or if you seek a comprehensive family trip with your teenagers or adult children. What sets this itinerary apart is the opportunity to explore two distinctive cities in addition to the usual top destinations in both countries: Guilin in China and Hoi An in Vietnam. These cities offer more authentic and local experiences. In Guilin, you may be captivated by the breathtaking rural landscapes of China. Take leisurely strolls through the magnificent terraced fields, enjoy sunset rides alongside the paddies, and immerse yourself in fascinating local minority cultures. In Hoi An, you would get a taste of the life of local fishermen. Try your hand at casting Vietnamese fishing nets, paddle an iconic Vietnamese round basket boat, and savor a serene boat ride at night, surrounded by enchanting lanterns. 3-Week China and Vietnam Adventure Tour Discover the Best of China and Vietnam's Culture, History, and Natural Wonders 3-Week China and Vietnam Adventure Tour Discover the Best of China and Vietnam's Culture, History, and Natural Wonders 3-Week China and Vietnam Adventure Tour Discover the Best of China and Vietnam's Culture, History, and Natural Wonders 2. 2 Weeks in China and Vietnam (An Essence Itinerary) Day City Activity Day 1 Hanoi Arrival and rest Day 2 Hanoi City tour of iconic buildings Days 3–4 Halong Bay An overnight cruise trip Days 5–6 The Mekong Delta Visit floating markets and villages Day 7 Ho Chi Minh City Visit museums and historic buildings Day 8 Fly to China N/A Day 9 Shanghai City tour with buildings and gardens Days 10–11 Xi'an Visit the Terracotta Army and Xi'an Ancient City Wall Day 12–14 Beijing Visit the Great Wall, the Forbidden City, and old temples, and enjoy a hutong tour If this is your first time in China and you want to explore the most essential cities and attractions within a certain period, then this itinerary is a good option. Most of China's and Vietnam's renowned attractions are encompassed within these cities. Feel free to contact us. We would be happy to create an itinerary based on your ideas and any requirements you have. 8-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai Tour China Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai Tour China Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai Tour China Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai Tour China Golden Triangle 3. 12 Days in China and Vietnam — Best Limited-Time Balance Day City Activity Day 1 Beijing Arrival and rest Days 2–4 Beijing Visit must-see attractions (the Forbidden City, the Great Wall, etc.) Day 5 Fly to Hanoi N/A Day 6 Hanoi City day tour Days 7–8 Halong Bay An overnight cruise Days 9–10 The Mekong Delta Visit floating markets and villages Days 11–12 Ho Chi Minh City City tour and departure This itinerary strikes a harmonious balance between culture, history, and adventure in a limited time. The journey in China focuses on culture and history. In Vietnam, there are more opportunities for outdoor adventures and exploration of its stunning natural landscapes. Contact us and we'll customize your own personalized journey, tailored perfectly to fit your preferences and travel desires. How to Travel Between China and Vietnam Flying is the most recommended and popular choice for traveling between China and Vietnam. Direct flights are available between the major cities, such as Beijing, Shanghai, Hanoi, and Ho Chi Minh City. The journey takes about 4 hours. There is no big difference whether you choose to fly to China or Vietnam first. The order of destinations in the itineraries above could be reversed. If your primary focus in China is cultural and historical exploration, starting your journey in China and then proceeding to Vietnam allows for a more leisurely culture-to-nature travel experience. The daily cost for a private trip to China and Vietnam is about 220–250 USD per person including flights/train journeys within China and Vietnam as well as transportation between China and Vietnam, 4- or 5-star hotels, lunches, attractions, guides, and private transport. Hotel rates could increase by 50 to 100 percent during the peak season. We recommend booking up to 3 months in advance for more options and potential savings. When booking with us, you would receive a 100% refund of any payments made to China Highlights if you cancel up to 3 weeks before departure (more details here⇒). The best times to visit most China cities are spring (March to May) and autumn (September to November), while most of Vietnam is drier from November to April. If you have a flexible schedule, consider visiting in March, April, and November. During these months, you could enjoy pleasant weather, breathtaking scenery, and a wide range of suitable activities in both countries. Another excellent option is September/October, as China has wonderful weather at this time. The rainy season in north and south Vietnam is tapering off, resulting in fewer tourists. The Christmas holiday is also a great time because Vietnam enjoys mild/warm and comfortable weather, making it an ideal time to visit the beaches. In China, you could savor snowy landscapes and engage in various skiing activities during this period. If you only have time to travel during the summer vacation, you would encounter the rainy season. However, the rainy season is not as inconvenient for travel as you might think. Most of the rain occurs in the afternoons or evenings. Cities such as Beijing, Xi'an, and Hanoi, which are dominated by historical and cultural attractions in buildings, are not affected too much by the rain. Your travel itinerary would also be designed to be more flexible, always having a "plan B" for each day in case of rain and including more indoor activities. 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm 12-Day Beijing, Shanghai, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Hong Kong Tour China's Modern Marvels and Rural Charm For Vietnam: Most European citizens can enter Vietnam visa-free, such as those from Britain, France, Italy, and Spain. Visitors who are not able to enter visa-free could apply for an e-visa. For China: Most travelers, including American, British, and Australian tourists, need to apply for a tourist visa (L visa). We would provide the invitation letter that you would need for a tourist visa application when booking a tour with us. Tour China and Vietnam with Us Our private tours are designed to be the most convenient and fulfilling option for your trip to China and Vietnam. Just contact us and we'll create a trip based on your interests and requirements. Our consultants will listen to and answer your inquiries carefully and promptly and prepare the best tour plan for you. You Might Like to Read • How to Plan a Trip to China and Laos • How to Plan a Trip to China and Bali • How to Plan a Trip to China and South Korea