ID: 60325a9f16a680ec
Title: 1-Day Chongqing Wulong National Geology Park Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chongqing/1-day-wulong-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Embark on an unforgettable day trip to Chongqing Wulong Karst National Geopark. This UNESCO World Heritage site showcases the wonders of nature, with majestic karst formations, precipitous canyons, and mysterious caves.Don’t miss the world-famous Three Natural Bridges and the stunning Longshui Gorge Grand Canyon, both amazing wonders of nature. Tour Highlights Experience the magnificent wonders of nature in Wulong National Geopark. Relax and immerse yourself with all-inclusive package with a professional guide, comfortable vehicle and all the tickets for a seamless, enriching adventure. Option of hassle-free charter car service with ticket reservation in advance to self-guided exploring Wulong. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the departure time with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 - 12:00am Transfer from Chongqing to Wulong Your guide will pick you up at your hotel lobby at 8 AM in Chongqing downtown and head to Wulong district. It's about 3 hours to get there by car. And then take a simple lunch at your own expense. Chongqing City 12:00 - 2:00pm Visit Wulong Tiankeng Three Bridges After lunch, we'll enter the Wulong National Geological Park. Wulong is well-known by the movie Transformers: Age of Extinction. It had been drawn to this place for its marvelous natural scenery, and more and more people are attracted by Wulong's gorgeous karst scenery. There are two hottest attractions: Three Natural Bridges of world wonder, and the magnificent Longshuixia Gap. Wulong National Park，Chongqing Three Natural Bridges are the largest natural bridge groups in Asia. Featured in a classic karst landform, the magnificent scenery is full of life. The Three Natural Bridges consist of Tianlong Bridge, Qinglong Bridge and Heilong Bridge. They are all natural bridges running from north to south, spanning the Yangshui River Canyon and connecting the mountains on both sides. There are naturally formed pits under the bridges, so the Three Natural Bridges are also called Tiankeng Three Bridges. The area features deep gorges, lush greenery, and impressive rock formations. It's a popular destination for tourists seeking to experience the beauty of nature and the unique karst topography. 2:00 - 4:00pm Visit Longshuixia Gap Take a 10 minutes eco vehicle inside to the Longshuixia Gap. The transport ticket requires to purchase on site(CNY 15 p/p). Longshuixia Gap was formed by the orogenic movement tens of millions of years ago. Longshuixia is actually a gap-style gorge, with 5km long and the tour part is about 2km. The gorge is magnificent and the depth of it is from 200m to 500m. The gorge features steep cliffs, lush vegetation, and a cool, misty atmosphere, making it a captivating place for visitors. As you walk along the pathways, you'll encounter waterfalls, streams, and unique rock formations. Longshuixia Gorge 4:00 - 7:00pm Transfer Back to Chongqing The tour will ends after visit the park and return to Chongqing downtown. It takes about 3 hours from Wulong to Chongqing and we will arrive at Chongqing around 7pm. You can get off at the center of Chongqing, where you can continue to enjoy the night view of Chongqing and have dinner, or you can go directly back to your hotel. Hongya Cave Know Before You Book Price Include: Hotel pick up and drop off. Professional English-speaking local guide. (Optional) Private round-way transportation with air-conditioned vehicle. All admission fee. Price Exclude: Lunch. Transportation between Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gap (CNY 15 p/p). Gratuities (recommended). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Embark on an unforgettable day trip to Chongqing Wulong Karst National Geopark. This UNESCO World Heritage site showcases the wonders of nature, with majestic karst formations, precipitous canyons, and mysterious caves.Don’t miss the world-famous Three Natural Bridges and the stunning Longshui Gorge Grand Canyon, both amazing wonders of nature. Embark on an unforgettable day trip to Chongqing Wulong Karst National Geopark. This UNESCO World Heritage site showcases the wonders of nature, with majestic karst formations, precipitous canyons, and mysterious caves.Don’t miss the world-famous Three Natural Bridges and the stunning Longshui Gorge Grand Canyon, both amazing wonders of nature. Tour Highlights Experience the magnificent wonders of nature in Wulong National Geopark. Relax and immerse yourself with all-inclusive package with a professional guide, comfortable vehicle and all the tickets for a seamless, enriching adventure. Option of hassle-free charter car service with ticket reservation in advance to self-guided exploring Wulong. • Experience the magnificent wonders of nature in Wulong National Geopark. • Relax and immerse yourself with all-inclusive package with a professional guide, comfortable vehicle and all the tickets for a seamless, enriching adventure. • Option of hassle-free charter car service with ticket reservation in advance to self-guided exploring Wulong. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the departure time with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 - 12:00am Transfer from Chongqing to Wulong Your guide will pick you up at your hotel lobby at 8 AM in Chongqing downtown and head to Wulong district. It's about 3 hours to get there by car. And then take a simple lunch at your own expense. Chongqing City 12:00 - 2:00pm Visit Wulong Tiankeng Three Bridges After lunch, we'll enter the Wulong National Geological Park. Wulong is well-known by the movie Transformers: Age of Extinction. It had been drawn to this place for its marvelous natural scenery, and more and more people are attracted by Wulong's gorgeous karst scenery. There are two hottest attractions: Three Natural Bridges of world wonder, and the magnificent Longshuixia Gap. Wulong National Park，Chongqing Three Natural Bridges are the largest natural bridge groups in Asia. Featured in a classic karst landform, the magnificent scenery is full of life. The Three Natural Bridges consist of Tianlong Bridge, Qinglong Bridge and Heilong Bridge. They are all natural bridges running from north to south, spanning the Yangshui River Canyon and connecting the mountains on both sides. There are naturally formed pits under the bridges, so the Three Natural Bridges are also called Tiankeng Three Bridges. The area features deep gorges, lush greenery, and impressive rock formations. It's a popular destination for tourists seeking to experience the beauty of nature and the unique karst topography. 2:00 - 4:00pm Visit Longshuixia Gap Take a 10 minutes eco vehicle inside to the Longshuixia Gap. The transport ticket requires to purchase on site(CNY 15 p/p). Longshuixia Gap was formed by the orogenic movement tens of millions of years ago. Longshuixia is actually a gap-style gorge, with 5km long and the tour part is about 2km. The gorge is magnificent and the depth of it is from 200m to 500m. The gorge features steep cliffs, lush vegetation, and a cool, misty atmosphere, making it a captivating place for visitors. As you walk along the pathways, you'll encounter waterfalls, streams, and unique rock formations. Longshuixia Gorge 4:00 - 7:00pm Transfer Back to Chongqing The tour will ends after visit the park and return to Chongqing downtown. It takes about 3 hours from Wulong to Chongqing and we will arrive at Chongqing around 7pm. You can get off at the center of Chongqing, where you can continue to enjoy the night view of Chongqing and have dinner, or you can go directly back to your hotel. Hongya Cave Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the departure time with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 - 12:00am Transfer from Chongqing to Wulong Your guide will pick you up at your hotel lobby at 8 AM in Chongqing downtown and head to Wulong district. It's about 3 hours to get there by car. And then take a simple lunch at your own expense. Chongqing City 12:00 - 2:00pm Visit Wulong Tiankeng Three Bridges After lunch, we'll enter the Wulong National Geological Park. Wulong is well-known by the movie Transformers: Age of Extinction. It had been drawn to this place for its marvelous natural scenery, and more and more people are attracted by Wulong's gorgeous karst scenery. There are two hottest attractions: Three Natural Bridges of world wonder, and the magnificent Longshuixia Gap. Wulong National Park，Chongqing Three Natural Bridges are the largest natural bridge groups in Asia. Featured in a classic karst landform, the magnificent scenery is full of life. The Three Natural Bridges consist of Tianlong Bridge, Qinglong Bridge and Heilong Bridge. They are all natural bridges running from north to south, spanning the Yangshui River Canyon and connecting the mountains on both sides. There are naturally formed pits under the bridges, so the Three Natural Bridges are also called Tiankeng Three Bridges. The area features deep gorges, lush greenery, and impressive rock formations. It's a popular destination for tourists seeking to experience the beauty of nature and the unique karst topography. 2:00 - 4:00pm Visit Longshuixia Gap Take a 10 minutes eco vehicle inside to the Longshuixia Gap. The transport ticket requires to purchase on site(CNY 15 p/p). Longshuixia Gap was formed by the orogenic movement tens of millions of years ago. Longshuixia is actually a gap-style gorge, with 5km long and the tour part is about 2km. The gorge is magnificent and the depth of it is from 200m to 500m. The gorge features steep cliffs, lush vegetation, and a cool, misty atmosphere, making it a captivating place for visitors. As you walk along the pathways, you'll encounter waterfalls, streams, and unique rock formations. Longshuixia Gorge 4:00 - 7:00pm Transfer Back to Chongqing The tour will ends after visit the park and return to Chongqing downtown. It takes about 3 hours from Wulong to Chongqing and we will arrive at Chongqing around 7pm. You can get off at the center of Chongqing, where you can continue to enjoy the night view of Chongqing and have dinner, or you can go directly back to your hotel. Hongya Cave The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the departure time with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the departure time with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He/she will double confirm the departure time with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 8:00 - 12:00am Transfer from Chongqing to Wulong Your guide will pick you up at your hotel lobby at 8 AM in Chongqing downtown and head to Wulong district. It's about 3 hours to get there by car. And then take a simple lunch at your own expense. Chongqing City 8:00 - 12:00am Transfer from Chongqing to Wulong Your guide will pick you up at your hotel lobby at 8 AM in Chongqing downtown and head to Wulong district. It's about 3 hours to get there by car. And then take a simple lunch at your own expense. Chongqing City Your guide will pick you up at your hotel lobby at 8 AM in Chongqing downtown and head to Wulong district. It's about 3 hours to get there by car. And then take a simple lunch at your own expense. 12:00 - 2:00pm Visit Wulong Tiankeng Three Bridges After lunch, we'll enter the Wulong National Geological Park. Wulong is well-known by the movie Transformers: Age of Extinction. It had been drawn to this place for its marvelous natural scenery, and more and more people are attracted by Wulong's gorgeous karst scenery. There are two hottest attractions: Three Natural Bridges of world wonder, and the magnificent Longshuixia Gap. Wulong National Park，Chongqing Three Natural Bridges are the largest natural bridge groups in Asia. Featured in a classic karst landform, the magnificent scenery is full of life. The Three Natural Bridges consist of Tianlong Bridge, Qinglong Bridge and Heilong Bridge. They are all natural bridges running from north to south, spanning the Yangshui River Canyon and connecting the mountains on both sides. There are naturally formed pits under the bridges, so the Three Natural Bridges are also called Tiankeng Three Bridges. The area features deep gorges, lush greenery, and impressive rock formations. It's a popular destination for tourists seeking to experience the beauty of nature and the unique karst topography. 12:00 - 2:00pm Visit Wulong Tiankeng Three Bridges After lunch, we'll enter the Wulong National Geological Park. Wulong is well-known by the movie Transformers: Age of Extinction. It had been drawn to this place for its marvelous natural scenery, and more and more people are attracted by Wulong's gorgeous karst scenery. There are two hottest attractions: Three Natural Bridges of world wonder, and the magnificent Longshuixia Gap. Wulong National Park，Chongqing Three Natural Bridges are the largest natural bridge groups in Asia. Featured in a classic karst landform, the magnificent scenery is full of life. The Three Natural Bridges consist of Tianlong Bridge, Qinglong Bridge and Heilong Bridge. They are all natural bridges running from north to south, spanning the Yangshui River Canyon and connecting the mountains on both sides. There are naturally formed pits under the bridges, so the Three Natural Bridges are also called Tiankeng Three Bridges. The area features deep gorges, lush greenery, and impressive rock formations. It's a popular destination for tourists seeking to experience the beauty of nature and the unique karst topography. After lunch, we'll enter the Wulong National Geological Park. Wulong is well-known by the movie Transformers: Age of Extinction. It had been drawn to this place for its marvelous natural scenery, and more and more people are attracted by Wulong's gorgeous karst scenery. There are two hottest attractions: Three Natural Bridges of world wonder, and the magnificent Longshuixia Gap. Wulong National Park，Chongqing Three Natural Bridges are the largest natural bridge groups in Asia. Featured in a classic karst landform, the magnificent scenery is full of life. The Three Natural Bridges consist of Tianlong Bridge, Qinglong Bridge and Heilong Bridge. They are all natural bridges running from north to south, spanning the Yangshui River Canyon and connecting the mountains on both sides. There are naturally formed pits under the bridges, so the Three Natural Bridges are also called Tiankeng Three Bridges. The area features deep gorges, lush greenery, and impressive rock formations. It's a popular destination for tourists seeking to experience the beauty of nature and the unique karst topography. 2:00 - 4:00pm Visit Longshuixia Gap Take a 10 minutes eco vehicle inside to the Longshuixia Gap. The transport ticket requires to purchase on site(CNY 15 p/p). Longshuixia Gap was formed by the orogenic movement tens of millions of years ago. Longshuixia is actually a gap-style gorge, with 5km long and the tour part is about 2km. The gorge is magnificent and the depth of it is from 200m to 500m. The gorge features steep cliffs, lush vegetation, and a cool, misty atmosphere, making it a captivating place for visitors. As you walk along the pathways, you'll encounter waterfalls, streams, and unique rock formations. Longshuixia Gorge 2:00 - 4:00pm Visit Longshuixia Gap Take a 10 minutes eco vehicle inside to the Longshuixia Gap. The transport ticket requires to purchase on site(CNY 15 p/p). Longshuixia Gap was formed by the orogenic movement tens of millions of years ago. Longshuixia is actually a gap-style gorge, with 5km long and the tour part is about 2km. The gorge is magnificent and the depth of it is from 200m to 500m. The gorge features steep cliffs, lush vegetation, and a cool, misty atmosphere, making it a captivating place for visitors. As you walk along the pathways, you'll encounter waterfalls, streams, and unique rock formations. Longshuixia Gorge Take a 10 minutes eco vehicle inside to the Longshuixia Gap. The transport ticket requires to purchase on site(CNY 15 p/p). Longshuixia Gap was formed by the orogenic movement tens of millions of years ago. Longshuixia is actually a gap-style gorge, with 5km long and the tour part is about 2km. The gorge is magnificent and the depth of it is from 200m to 500m. The gorge features steep cliffs, lush vegetation, and a cool, misty atmosphere, making it a captivating place for visitors. As you walk along the pathways, you'll encounter waterfalls, streams, and unique rock formations. 4:00 - 7:00pm Transfer Back to Chongqing The tour will ends after visit the park and return to Chongqing downtown. It takes about 3 hours from Wulong to Chongqing and we will arrive at Chongqing around 7pm. You can get off at the center of Chongqing, where you can continue to enjoy the night view of Chongqing and have dinner, or you can go directly back to your hotel. Hongya Cave 4:00 - 7:00pm Transfer Back to Chongqing The tour will ends after visit the park and return to Chongqing downtown. It takes about 3 hours from Wulong to Chongqing and we will arrive at Chongqing around 7pm. You can get off at the center of Chongqing, where you can continue to enjoy the night view of Chongqing and have dinner, or you can go directly back to your hotel. Hongya Cave The tour will ends after visit the park and return to Chongqing downtown. It takes about 3 hours from Wulong to Chongqing and we will arrive at Chongqing around 7pm. You can get off at the center of Chongqing, where you can continue to enjoy the night view of Chongqing and have dinner, or you can go directly back to your hotel. Know Before You Book Price Include: Hotel pick up and drop off. Professional English-speaking local guide. (Optional) Private round-way transportation with air-conditioned vehicle. All admission fee. Price Exclude: Lunch. Transportation between Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gap (CNY 15 p/p). Gratuities (recommended). Price Include: Hotel pick up and drop off. Professional English-speaking local guide. (Optional) Private round-way transportation with air-conditioned vehicle. All admission fee. Price Exclude: Lunch. Transportation between Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gap (CNY 15 p/p). Gratuities (recommended). Price Include: Hotel pick up and drop off. Professional English-speaking local guide. (Optional) Private round-way transportation with air-conditioned vehicle. All admission fee. Price Exclude: Lunch. Transportation between Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gap (CNY 15 p/p). Gratuities (recommended). • Hotel pick up and drop off. • Professional English-speaking local guide. (Optional) • Private round-way transportation with air-conditioned vehicle. • All admission fee. • Lunch. • Transportation between Three Bridges and Longshuixia Gap (CNY 15 p/p). • Gratuities (recommended). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 149 p/p Transfer Type All-inclusive Private Day tour Private Charter Car + Tickets Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 149 p/p Transfer Type All-inclusive Private Day tour Private Charter Car + Tickets Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 149 p/p Transfer Type All-inclusive Private Day tour Private Charter Car + Tickets Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type All-inclusive Private Day tour Private Charter Car + Tickets Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20