ID: 156f815ac8316e99
Title: Best (& Worst) Times to Visit Yunnan 2026: Tips for All Months
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yunnan/best-time-to-visit.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Compared to most places in China, Yunnan is warmer in winter and cooler in summer. In general, October to April is the best time to travel to Yunnan. However, the best time for you to visit Yunnan depends on your interests and what you hope to experience. Check out our best times advice and see which one suits you most. • Best Times for Good Weather • Best Times for Family Travel • Best Times for Ethnic Festivals • The Worst Times • Guide by Month The Best Times to Visit Yunnan for Good Weather Spring and autumn are the best times to visit Yunnan for good weather. Spring (March to May) enjoys pleasant weather, especially if you prefer milder temperatures and enjoy witnessing the region's natural beauty in bloom. Daytime temperatures typically range from 15 to 25°C (59–77°F). During the autumn months, from September to November, you can expect pleasant and comfortable weather with clear skies. It is also the best season for outdoor activities. Daytime temperatures are about the same as temperatures in spring. The Best Times to Visit Yunnan for Family Travel Undoubtedly, spring and autumn are the best seasons for families of all ages. Your family could enjoy a wide range of activities, from cultural experiences to outdoor adventures. If you're traveling with school-age children, summertime might be a suitable time. Although summer is the rainy season, your family could still enjoy some outdoor adventures, such as hiking, cycling, and exploring nature. Northern and central cities, such as Dali, Kunming, and Lijiang, receive less rainfall than southern ones. If your family is looking for a unique Christmas and New Year celebration, winter could also be a good time. Yunnan experiences relatively mild winters (December to February) compared to many other parts of China. Lowland areas, such as Kunming, Dali, and Xishuangbanna, have pleasant daytime temperatures, typically ranging from 10–20°C (50–68°F). If you are planning a family trip to Yunnan, see more on How to Plan a Family Trip to Yunnan, or feel free to contact us if you need professional advice and itinerary planning. 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments The Best Times to Visit Yunnan for Ethnic Festivals If you want to experience the exotic Yunnan ethnic customs, April is recommended. In April, you could experience the Water Splashing Festival in Xishuangbanna. People gather in the streets and on the riverbanks to douse each other with water as a symbol of cleansing and good luck. You would also witness colorful parades featuring traditional Dai clothing, music, and dance. The San Yue Jie ethnic festival in Dali would also be held in the third lunar month (usually in April). You would have the opportunity to enjoy traditional cultural performances and explore bustling markets featuring a wide array of handicrafts, artworks, and local delicacies. Yunnan enjoys rich and colorful ethnic cultures and traditions. If you are particularly interested in this, we could arrange some experiences for you in the itinerary according to your interests. Just contact us. 7-Day Yunnan Minorities Cultural Tour: Kunming, Dali and Lijiang 7-Day Yunnan Minorities Cultural Tour: Kunming, Dali and Lijiang 7-Day Yunnan Minorities Cultural Tour: Kunming, Dali and Lijiang The Worst Time to Visit Yunnan Yunnan does not have a worst time for sightseeing. Because Yunnan is located on a high plateau at a low latitude, this leads to excellent spring-like weather throughout the four seasons. There is no scorching heat or severe cold. Whenever you visit, you could enjoy its seasonal weather advantages and activities. But if you dislike heavy rainfall and want to avoid wet weather, then the rainy season (June to August) might be the worst time for you to visit Yunnan. Many areas, especially in the south (such as Xishuangbanna), experience frequent and sometimes torrential rain. Kunming, Dali, and Shangri-La would be better choices. Flexible arrangements need to be made to cope with occasional rain. When it doesn't rain, you could still do many outdoor activities, such as hiking and cycling. When it rains, you could also have many rich indoor cultural experiences, such as dyeing a handkerchief in the traditional Bai way at a family tie-dyeing workshop. We would create a hassle-free trip based on your travel time and requirements. Feel free to contact us. Yunnan Travel Guide by Month • January • February • August • September • October • November • December Yunnan in January Average daily temperature range: 3–17°C (37–63°F) Average rainy days: 3 Average cloudy days: 11 Average sunny days: 17 January brings crisp, cool weather to Yunnan. Xishuangbanna is a good place to escape the cold winter. Lijiang, Dali, and Kunming also have mild and sunny weather. It is suitable to enjoy various outdoor activities. There are also relatively few visitors to Yunnan in January. • Average daily temperature range: 3–17°C (37–63°F) • Average rainy days: 3 • Average cloudy days: 11 • Average sunny days: 17 January brings crisp, cool weather to Yunnan. Xishuangbanna is a good place to escape the cold winter. Lijiang, Dali, and Kunming also have mild and sunny weather. It is suitable to enjoy various outdoor activities. There are also relatively few visitors to Yunnan in January. Yunnan in February Average daily temperature range: 5–20°C (41–68°F) Average rainy days: 2 Average cloudy days: 9 Average sunny days: 17 February continues to offer pleasant weather in Yunnan. Quiet attractions and reasonable prices can be expected. You could celebrate Chinese New Year with its lively festivities, parades, and traditional performances. Outdoor activities are very suitable with such nice dry and cool weather, such as exploring the ancient town of Dali, cycling alongside the serene Erhai Lake, or hiking through the picturesque Tiger Leaping Gorge. 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour • Average daily temperature range: 5–20°C (41–68°F) • Average rainy days: 2 • Average cloudy days: 9 • Average sunny days: 17 February continues to offer pleasant weather in Yunnan. Quiet attractions and reasonable prices can be expected. You could celebrate Chinese New Year with its lively festivities, parades, and traditional performances. Outdoor activities are very suitable with such nice dry and cool weather, such as exploring the ancient town of Dali, cycling alongside the serene Erhai Lake, or hiking through the picturesque Tiger Leaping Gorge. 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour Yunnan in March Average daily temperature range: 9–22°C (48–72°F) Average rainy days: 4 Average cloudy days: 12 Average sunny days: 15 March welcomes spring to Yunnan with blossoming flowers and warming temperatures. The quiet environment and beautiful scenery are the advantages of visiting Yunnan in March. Visit the mesmerizing Stone Forest near Kunming or venture into the terraced fields of Yuanyang for stunning photography opportunities. The weather is also perfect for outdoor adventures and cultural explorations. 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour • Average daily temperature range: 9–22°C (48–72°F) • Average rainy days: 4 • Average cloudy days: 12 • Average sunny days: 15 March welcomes spring to Yunnan with blossoming flowers and warming temperatures. The quiet environment and beautiful scenery are the advantages of visiting Yunnan in March. Visit the mesmerizing Stone Forest near Kunming or venture into the terraced fields of Yuanyang for stunning photography opportunities. The weather is also perfect for outdoor adventures and cultural explorations. 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour Yunnan in April Average daily temperature range: 12–25°C (54–77°F) Average rainy days: 7 Average cloudy days: 14 Average sunny days: 9 April is one of the most popular months to visit Yunnan. The landscapes are adorned with vibrant blooms and the temperatures are mild. Explore the ancient city of Lijiang, hike in Shangri-La, dive into the seas of rape flowers in Luoping, or visit the mystical Meili Snow Mountains. April is a traveler's paradise. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan • Average daily temperature range: 12–25°C (54–77°F) • Average rainy days: 7 • Average cloudy days: 14 • Average sunny days: 9 April is one of the most popular months to visit Yunnan. The landscapes are adorned with vibrant blooms and the temperatures are mild. Explore the ancient city of Lijiang, hike in Shangri-La, dive into the seas of rape flowers in Luoping, or visit the mystical Meili Snow Mountains. April is a traveler's paradise. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan Yunnan in May Average daily temperature range: 15–26°C (59–79°F) Average rainy days: 11 Average cloudy days: 13 Average sunny days: 7 May marks the start of the rainy season in Yunnan, particularly in the south. However, the lush greenery and blooming flowers make it a picturesque time to explore. Visit the diverse ethnic villages, such as those around Dali and Shaxi, and experience local traditions, such as learning some mysterious Naxi characters. 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure TourWander This Land on Foot • Average daily temperature range: 15–26°C (59–79°F) • Average rainy days: 11 • Average cloudy days: 13 • Average sunny days: 7 May marks the start of the rainy season in Yunnan, particularly in the south. However, the lush greenery and blooming flowers make it a picturesque time to explore. Visit the diverse ethnic villages, such as those around Dali and Shaxi, and experience local traditions, such as learning some mysterious Naxi characters. 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure TourWander This Land on Foot 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure TourWander This Land on Foot 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure TourWander This Land on Foot Yunnan in June Average daily temperature range: 18–26°C (64–79°F) Average rainy days: 22 Average cloudy days: 6 Average sunny days: 2 June continues the rainy season in Yunnan. The impact of the rainy season is minimal because most daylight hours of most days are still clear. There are only a few occasional days when it rains consistently. Most activities, such as visiting old towns and food hunting, can still be done. You could also try some interesting traditional skills of ethnic minorities, such as tie-dyeing. This is also a good indoor option for rainy days. 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture • Average daily temperature range: 18–26°C (64–79°F) • Average rainy days: 22 • Average cloudy days: 6 • Average sunny days: 2 June continues the rainy season in Yunnan. The impact of the rainy season is minimal because most daylight hours of most days are still clear. There are only a few occasional days when it rains consistently. Most activities, such as visiting old towns and food hunting, can still be done. You could also try some interesting traditional skills of ethnic minorities, such as tie-dyeing. This is also a good indoor option for rainy days. 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture Yunnan in July Average daily temperature range: 18–25°C (64–77°F) Average rainy days: 24 Average cloudy days: 6 Average sunny days: 1 July offers a mix of rain and sunshine. While the weather can be unpredictable, it's a great time to visit Yunnan's ancient towns, such as Shaxi, and explore their historic charm. Venture to the mystical Shangri-La region and experience the lifestyle of a Tibetan family living on a pasture. 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour • Average daily temperature range: 18–25°C (64–77°F) • Average rainy days: 24 • Average cloudy days: 6 • Average sunny days: 1 July offers a mix of rain and sunshine. While the weather can be unpredictable, it's a great time to visit Yunnan's ancient towns, such as Shaxi, and explore their historic charm. Venture to the mystical Shangri-La region and experience the lifestyle of a Tibetan family living on a pasture. 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour 15-Day Private China Tour: Shanghai– Xishuangbanna– Puer–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Classic Shanghai to Yunnan Tour Yunnan in August Average daily temperature range: 18–26°C (64–79°F) Average rainy days: 24 Average cloudy days: 6 Average sunny days: 1 Also in the rainy season, Yunnan can bring you a cool summer vacation compared to other places that experience summer heat. Cool off by taking a cable car ride up Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Learn to make Yunnan's famous flower cake at a flower farm. And pay a visit to Shangri-La to discover Tibetan Buddhism. 16-Day Beijing–Kunming– Dongchuan–Dali–Lijiang–Shangri la–Jiuzhaigou Classic Yunnan and Jiuzhaigou Tour • Average daily temperature range: 18–26°C (64–79°F) • Average rainy days: 24 • Average cloudy days: 6 • Average sunny days: 1 Also in the rainy season, Yunnan can bring you a cool summer vacation compared to other places that experience summer heat. Cool off by taking a cable car ride up Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. Learn to make Yunnan's famous flower cake at a flower farm. And pay a visit to Shangri-La to discover Tibetan Buddhism. 16-Day Beijing–Kunming– Dongchuan–Dali–Lijiang–Shangri la–Jiuzhaigou Classic Yunnan and Jiuzhaigou Tour 16-Day Beijing–Kunming– Dongchuan–Dali–Lijiang–Shangri la–Jiuzhaigou Classic Yunnan and Jiuzhaigou Tour 16-Day Beijing–Kunming– Dongchuan–Dali–Lijiang–Shangri la–Jiuzhaigou Classic Yunnan and Jiuzhaigou Tour Yunnan in September Average daily temperature range: 17–25°C (63–77°F) Average rainy days: 16 Average cloudy days: 13 Average sunny days: 1 September marks the transition from the rainy season to the dry season in Yunnan. The landscapes are refreshed and it's a great time for outdoor activities, such as hiking on Haba Snow Mountain's hidden route or exploring the less-visited dark karst landscapes of the Stone Forest near Kunming. • Average daily temperature range: 17–25°C (63–77°F) • Average rainy days: 16 • Average cloudy days: 13 • Average sunny days: 1 September marks the transition from the rainy season to the dry season in Yunnan. The landscapes are refreshed and it's a great time for outdoor activities, such as hiking on Haba Snow Mountain's hidden route or exploring the less-visited dark karst landscapes of the Stone Forest near Kunming. Yunnan in October Average daily temperature range: 13–22°C (55–72°F) Average rainy days: 4 Average cloudy days: 15 Average sunny days: 12 October offers cool and comfortable weather, making it one of the best times to visit Yunnan. Explore the enchanting Old Town of Lijiang, hike on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, or explore the place of origin of the Tea Horse Road. See more on Yunnan Weather in October: Where to Go, Crowds, and Costs • Average daily temperature range: 13–22°C (55–72°F) • Average rainy days: 4 • Average cloudy days: 15 • Average sunny days: 12 October offers cool and comfortable weather, making it one of the best times to visit Yunnan. Explore the enchanting Old Town of Lijiang, hike on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, or explore the place of origin of the Tea Horse Road. See more on Yunnan Weather in October: Where to Go, Crowds, and Costs Yunnan in November Average daily temperature range: 8–20°C (46–68°F) Average rainy days: 4 Average cloudy days: 13 Average sunny days: 13 November is a delightful time to visit Yunnan. The weather is cool, the skies are clear, and the crowds recede. Popular cities, such as Dali, Lijiang, and Kunming, are perfectly suitable to visit. In addition to these cities, if you want some off-the-beaten-path routes, you could explore the ancient architecture of Jianshui or hike in the Yuanyang Rice Terraces for breathtaking views. See more on Yunnan Weather in November: Best Places to Go, Crowds, Cost • Average daily temperature range: 8–20°C (46–68°F) • Average rainy days: 4 • Average cloudy days: 13 • Average sunny days: 13 November is a delightful time to visit Yunnan. The weather is cool, the skies are clear, and the crowds recede. Popular cities, such as Dali, Lijiang, and Kunming, are perfectly suitable to visit. In addition to these cities, if you want some off-the-beaten-path routes, you could explore the ancient architecture of Jianshui or hike in the Yuanyang Rice Terraces for breathtaking views. See more on Yunnan Weather in November: Best Places to Go, Crowds, Cost Yunnan in December Average daily temperature range: 4–16°C (39–61°F) Average rainy days: 3 Average cloudy days: 18 Average sunny days: 10 December brings cool temperatures to Yunnan, but it's still a pleasant time to explore almost all of the cities there. Dali, Lijiang, and Kunming are best for exploring ancient towns, capturing stunning natural scenery, and experiencing cultural activities. If you want a warmer and summer-like Christmas and New Year celebration, tropical Xishuangbanna is recommended. Tengchong could also be a good option. It enjoys the best volcanic hot springs in China. • Average daily temperature range: 4–16°C (39–61°F) • Average rainy days: 3 • Average cloudy days: 18 • Average sunny days: 10 December brings cool temperatures to Yunnan, but it's still a pleasant time to explore almost all of the cities there. Dali, Lijiang, and Kunming are best for exploring ancient towns, capturing stunning natural scenery, and experiencing cultural activities. If you want a warmer and summer-like Christmas and New Year celebration, tropical Xishuangbanna is recommended. Tengchong could also be a good option. It enjoys the best volcanic hot springs in China. Recommended China Tours in Yunnan We are ready to solve the problems of planning a complex trip in an unfamiliar region for you, helping to save you time and effort while ensuring that your travel needs and desires are met. Just contact us to customize your trip. All of our tours, including those recommended below, can be adjusted/customized based on your requirements: • 15-Day Shanghai–Xishuangbanna–Pu'er–Yuanyang–Jianshui–Kunming–Dali–Lijiang Tour • 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan