ID: 2a6a4c55c013bb1e
Title: 3-Hour Evening Food Tour in Xi'an Muslim Quarter
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/xian/3-hour-xian-muslim-evening-food-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ When you hear about Xi'an, the first thing that probably pops to your mind is the Terracotta Warriors, but Muslim culture is a feature of Xi'an. Many Muslim streets are very famous, and they become a famous attraction of Xi'an for its profound Muslim cultural atmosphere. This 3-hour food tour in Muslim quarter will lead you to taste some best food which locals like, to see the vibrant and various night market and know the food culture and life in Xi'an. If you want to taste authentic Xi'an Muslim food, but don't know where to go to eat delicious snacks and avoid a lot of tourists and what is worth eating, don't hesitate to join our food tour! Tour Highlights Discover Xi'an Muslim quarter and try 6 specical dishes and drinks. Led by a local English-speaking foodie guide, no language barries. An accessible way to learn Xi'an Muslim history and culture. Mini group tour provides an intimate way to explore food street only locals know. The Design of the Activity Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Xi'an, know the city well and totally a big foodie. Location: A narrow food street only locals know, which is different from Muslim Steet to avoid many tourists. Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. Detailed Itinerary Close All 6:00 - 6:10 PMMeet The Guide We meet at the Sajinqiao subway station, Exit B, Line 1 at 6:00 PM and head to the Muslim Quarter. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Sajinqiao Subway Station Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 1 to the Sajinqiao Station and go to exit B. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到洒金桥地铁站B出口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 6:10 - 9:00 PMEnjoy Tasty Food and Visit Mosques Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. At the Beginning of the tour, you will you will follow the local foodie and walk into the depth of Muslim Quarter to taste the authentic food in traditional eateries. We will try 6 different dishes of food, such as Rou Jia Mo (Xi'an local bun with beef), Persimmon cake, Yang Rou Pao Mo (pita bread soaked in lamb soup), the chilled Eight Treasure porridge, steamed dumplings, etc. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. Eateries at Muslim Quarter Yang Rou Pao Mo Steamed dumplings Lanzhou Noodles During the tour, we will pass by some famous temples and mosques and you will learn the relevant history and stories. The traditional Chinese styled temples, pavilions and buildings, religious atmosphere in the mosque well illustrate the street's rich culture. Our guide would love to explain your any questions about the Muslim culture, history and lifestyle of Xi'an. Muslim mosque People in the temple There is a saying, "Nothing can't be solved with one barbecue, if so, then two." China has a different barbecue culture, expecially barbecue in Xi'an is very popular at summer nights among the young people. If you want to experience the night life of young Chinese, make an appointment with barbecue and skewers and some beers. Also, a great many other special and tasty food and snacks to be found along the street, and looking forward to being discovered by yourself! Our customers in Xi'an Price Include: Food and drink. Friendly English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Hotel pickup and drop-off services. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. When you hear about Xi'an, the first thing that probably pops to your mind is the Terracotta Warriors, but Muslim culture is a feature of Xi'an. Many Muslim streets are very famous, and they become a famous attraction of Xi'an for its profound Muslim cultural atmosphere. This 3-hour food tour in Muslim quarter will lead you to taste some best food which locals like, to see the vibrant and various night market and know the food culture and life in Xi'an. If you want to taste authentic Xi'an Muslim food, but don't know where to go to eat delicious snacks and avoid a lot of tourists and what is worth eating, don't hesitate to join our food tour! When you hear about Xi'an, the first thing that probably pops to your mind is the Terracotta Warriors, but Muslim culture is a feature of Xi'an. Many Muslim streets are very famous, and they become a famous attraction of Xi'an for its profound Muslim cultural atmosphere. This 3-hour food tour in Muslim quarter will lead you to taste some best food which locals like, to see the vibrant and various night market and know the food culture and life in Xi'an. If you want to taste authentic Xi'an Muslim food, but don't know where to go to eat delicious snacks and avoid a lot of tourists and what is worth eating, don't hesitate to join our food tour! Tour Highlights Discover Xi'an Muslim quarter and try 6 specical dishes and drinks. Led by a local English-speaking foodie guide, no language barries. An accessible way to learn Xi'an Muslim history and culture. Mini group tour provides an intimate way to explore food street only locals know. • Discover Xi'an Muslim quarter and try 6 specical dishes and drinks. • Led by a local English-speaking foodie guide, no language barries. • An accessible way to learn Xi'an Muslim history and culture. • Mini group tour provides an intimate way to explore food street only locals know. The Design of the Activity Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Xi'an, know the city well and totally a big foodie. Location: A narrow food street only locals know, which is different from Muslim Steet to avoid many tourists. Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. The Design of the Activity • Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Xi'an, know the city well and totally a big foodie. • Location: A narrow food street only locals know, which is different from Muslim Steet to avoid many tourists. • Trippest Xi'an Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice • Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. Detailed Itinerary Close All 6:00 - 6:10 PMMeet The Guide We meet at the Sajinqiao subway station, Exit B, Line 1 at 6:00 PM and head to the Muslim Quarter. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Sajinqiao Subway Station Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 1 to the Sajinqiao Station and go to exit B. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到洒金桥地铁站B出口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 6:10 - 9:00 PMEnjoy Tasty Food and Visit Mosques Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. At the Beginning of the tour, you will you will follow the local foodie and walk into the depth of Muslim Quarter to taste the authentic food in traditional eateries. We will try 6 different dishes of food, such as Rou Jia Mo (Xi'an local bun with beef), Persimmon cake, Yang Rou Pao Mo (pita bread soaked in lamb soup), the chilled Eight Treasure porridge, steamed dumplings, etc. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. Eateries at Muslim Quarter Yang Rou Pao Mo Steamed dumplings Lanzhou Noodles During the tour, we will pass by some famous temples and mosques and you will learn the relevant history and stories. The traditional Chinese styled temples, pavilions and buildings, religious atmosphere in the mosque well illustrate the street's rich culture. Our guide would love to explain your any questions about the Muslim culture, history and lifestyle of Xi'an. Muslim mosque People in the temple There is a saying, "Nothing can't be solved with one barbecue, if so, then two." China has a different barbecue culture, expecially barbecue in Xi'an is very popular at summer nights among the young people. If you want to experience the night life of young Chinese, make an appointment with barbecue and skewers and some beers. Also, a great many other special and tasty food and snacks to be found along the street, and looking forward to being discovered by yourself! Our customers in Xi'an Close All 6:00 - 6:10 PMMeet The Guide We meet at the Sajinqiao subway station, Exit B, Line 1 at 6:00 PM and head to the Muslim Quarter. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Sajinqiao Subway Station Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 1 to the Sajinqiao Station and go to exit B. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到洒金桥地铁站B出口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 6:10 - 9:00 PMEnjoy Tasty Food and Visit Mosques Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. At the Beginning of the tour, you will you will follow the local foodie and walk into the depth of Muslim Quarter to taste the authentic food in traditional eateries. We will try 6 different dishes of food, such as Rou Jia Mo (Xi'an local bun with beef), Persimmon cake, Yang Rou Pao Mo (pita bread soaked in lamb soup), the chilled Eight Treasure porridge, steamed dumplings, etc. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. Eateries at Muslim Quarter Yang Rou Pao Mo Steamed dumplings Lanzhou Noodles During the tour, we will pass by some famous temples and mosques and you will learn the relevant history and stories. The traditional Chinese styled temples, pavilions and buildings, religious atmosphere in the mosque well illustrate the street's rich culture. Our guide would love to explain your any questions about the Muslim culture, history and lifestyle of Xi'an. Muslim mosque People in the temple There is a saying, "Nothing can't be solved with one barbecue, if so, then two." China has a different barbecue culture, expecially barbecue in Xi'an is very popular at summer nights among the young people. If you want to experience the night life of young Chinese, make an appointment with barbecue and skewers and some beers. Also, a great many other special and tasty food and snacks to be found along the street, and looking forward to being discovered by yourself! Our customers in Xi'an 6:00 - 6:10 PMMeet The Guide We meet at the Sajinqiao subway station, Exit B, Line 1 at 6:00 PM and head to the Muslim Quarter. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Sajinqiao Subway Station Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 1 to the Sajinqiao Station and go to exit B. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到洒金桥地铁站B出口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 6:00 - 6:10 PMMeet The Guide We meet at the Sajinqiao subway station, Exit B, Line 1 at 6:00 PM and head to the Muslim Quarter. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Sajinqiao Subway Station Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 1 to the Sajinqiao Station and go to exit B. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到洒金桥地铁站B出口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. We meet at the Sajinqiao subway station, Exit B, Line 1 at 6:00 PM and head to the Muslim Quarter. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Sajinqiao Subway Station • How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 1 to the Sajinqiao Station and go to exit B. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到洒金桥地铁站B出口” • This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 6:10 - 9:00 PMEnjoy Tasty Food and Visit Mosques Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. At the Beginning of the tour, you will you will follow the local foodie and walk into the depth of Muslim Quarter to taste the authentic food in traditional eateries. We will try 6 different dishes of food, such as Rou Jia Mo (Xi'an local bun with beef), Persimmon cake, Yang Rou Pao Mo (pita bread soaked in lamb soup), the chilled Eight Treasure porridge, steamed dumplings, etc. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. Eateries at Muslim Quarter Yang Rou Pao Mo Steamed dumplings Lanzhou Noodles During the tour, we will pass by some famous temples and mosques and you will learn the relevant history and stories. The traditional Chinese styled temples, pavilions and buildings, religious atmosphere in the mosque well illustrate the street's rich culture. Our guide would love to explain your any questions about the Muslim culture, history and lifestyle of Xi'an. Muslim mosque People in the temple There is a saying, "Nothing can't be solved with one barbecue, if so, then two." China has a different barbecue culture, expecially barbecue in Xi'an is very popular at summer nights among the young people. If you want to experience the night life of young Chinese, make an appointment with barbecue and skewers and some beers. Also, a great many other special and tasty food and snacks to be found along the street, and looking forward to being discovered by yourself! Our customers in Xi'an 6:10 - 9:00 PMEnjoy Tasty Food and Visit Mosques Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. At the Beginning of the tour, you will you will follow the local foodie and walk into the depth of Muslim Quarter to taste the authentic food in traditional eateries. We will try 6 different dishes of food, such as Rou Jia Mo (Xi'an local bun with beef), Persimmon cake, Yang Rou Pao Mo (pita bread soaked in lamb soup), the chilled Eight Treasure porridge, steamed dumplings, etc. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. Eateries at Muslim Quarter Yang Rou Pao Mo Steamed dumplings Lanzhou Noodles During the tour, we will pass by some famous temples and mosques and you will learn the relevant history and stories. The traditional Chinese styled temples, pavilions and buildings, religious atmosphere in the mosque well illustrate the street's rich culture. Our guide would love to explain your any questions about the Muslim culture, history and lifestyle of Xi'an. Muslim mosque People in the temple There is a saying, "Nothing can't be solved with one barbecue, if so, then two." China has a different barbecue culture, expecially barbecue in Xi'an is very popular at summer nights among the young people. If you want to experience the night life of young Chinese, make an appointment with barbecue and skewers and some beers. Also, a great many other special and tasty food and snacks to be found along the street, and looking forward to being discovered by yourself! Our customers in Xi'an Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. At the Beginning of the tour, you will you will follow the local foodie and walk into the depth of Muslim Quarter to taste the authentic food in traditional eateries. We will try 6 different dishes of food, such as Rou Jia Mo (Xi'an local bun with beef), Persimmon cake, Yang Rou Pao Mo (pita bread soaked in lamb soup), the chilled Eight Treasure porridge, steamed dumplings, etc. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. Eateries at Muslim Quarter During the tour, we will pass by some famous temples and mosques and you will learn the relevant history and stories. The traditional Chinese styled temples, pavilions and buildings, religious atmosphere in the mosque well illustrate the street's rich culture. Our guide would love to explain your any questions about the Muslim culture, history and lifestyle of Xi'an. There is a saying, "Nothing can't be solved with one barbecue, if so, then two." China has a different barbecue culture, expecially barbecue in Xi'an is very popular at summer nights among the young people. If you want to experience the night life of young Chinese, make an appointment with barbecue and skewers and some beers. Also, a great many other special and tasty food and snacks to be found along the street, and looking forward to being discovered by yourself! Our customers in Xi'an Price Include: Food and drink. Friendly English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Price Include: Food and drink. Friendly English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Price Include: Food and drink. Friendly English-speaking local guide. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Hotel pickup and drop-off services. • Food and drink. • Friendly English-speaking local guide. • Personal expenses. • Hotel pickup and drop-off services. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 83 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 83 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 83 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20