ID: 1c5881a9bb5db0c4
Title: One-Day Beijing City Highlights Private Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/beijing/1-day-beijing-city-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Central Beijing boasts three UNESCO-listed treasures, the Forbidden City, Temple of Heaven, and Summer Palace —— all of them must-sees during a stay in China's capital. This Beijing city highlights tour makes it possible to check them off your list in a day, providing a great overview of the city and its imperial history. Private tour with delicated tour guide, vehicle and driver gives you a wonferful experience in Beijing! Tour Highlights Look Mao's portrait at the world largest urban square – Tiananmen Square. Skip the lines at the world largest imperial palace – the Forbidden City. Walk along the willow path, feeling the elegance of Chinese top imperial garden – the Summer Palace. Discover the beliefs and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. No shops, no factories, no time-wasting, no hidden costs! The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support Detailed Itinerary Close All 08:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time 8:00am. A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 8:00 AM - 10:30 AMVisit Tian'anmen Square and the Forbidden City The tour will be began from Tian'anmen Square where the famous Chairman Mao's portrait is hang on the wall of the Gate of Heavenly Peace. Like the Times Square in New York, Red Square in Moscow and St. Peter's Square, Tiananmen Square is a must-visit place for traveler to Beijing and is the largest public square in the world. You will have around 20 minutes there for taking photos. NOTE: Tian'anmen Square could be enforced martial law due to government activities temporarily, which we can NOT be informed in advance. So the tour guide may adjust the itinerary according to the situation. Tiananmen Square You will then have a short walk from Tian'anmen Square to the Forbidden City. The world's largest historical palatial complex, this massive walled compound dates from the 15th century, and was home to 14 Ming and 10 Qin emperors. Tour the main pavilions, halls and courtyards — the complex houses 800 buildings — and admire the classical Chinese architecture. The Forbidden City The Forbidden City Your tour guide will share tales of the royals who lived and ruled from here, more hidden story about this palace and any historic things with you. Guide explains the Forbidden City Good to Know: As the most popular attraction in Beijing, the Forbidden City receives many tourists everyday. Usually people have to stand in a queue to buy the tickets for a long time! In order to save your time, your tour guide will buy the tickets on-line in advance to avoid this situation. We will provide the FM headset while the group is more than 3 people. View exhibits in the Forbidden City 10:30 – 12:30 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven After that, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven. This is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages. Spending some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. Temple of Heaven in winter Admire the religious buildings and see the magnificent Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests, where the emperors prayed for fruitful harvests. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Customers in the front of the Temple of Heaven Practise Tai Chi in the Temple of Heaven 12:30 – 13:30 PMLunch Time Before go to the Summer Palace, take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch in our well-selected restaurant to taste local dishes. Enjoy lunch 13:30 – 16:30 PMVisit the Summer Palace In the afternoon, heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving to visit the world-famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. Full-view of Summer Palace It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. Riding boat on the lake Frozen river in winter Finished the boat trip, enjoy a leisurely stroll to admire the ornamental gardens, buildings, and other architectural gems. Best point for photographing Buildings in Summer Palace 16:30 – 17:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. Family tour in Summer Palace You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Price Include: Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. English-speaking professional tour guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Lunch. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Airport transfer. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, there will be an extra charge. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. Central Beijing boasts three UNESCO-listed treasures, the Forbidden City, Temple of Heaven, and Summer Palace —— all of them must-sees during a stay in China's capital. This Beijing city highlights tour makes it possible to check them off your list in a day, providing a great overview of the city and its imperial history. Private tour with delicated tour guide, vehicle and driver gives you a wonferful experience in Beijing! Central Beijing boasts three UNESCO-listed treasures, the Forbidden City, Temple of Heaven, and Summer Palace —— all of them must-sees during a stay in China's capital. This Beijing city highlights tour makes it possible to check them off your list in a day, providing a great overview of the city and its imperial history. Private tour with delicated tour guide, vehicle and driver gives you a wonferful experience in Beijing! Tour Highlights Look Mao's portrait at the world largest urban square – Tiananmen Square. Skip the lines at the world largest imperial palace – the Forbidden City. Walk along the willow path, feeling the elegance of Chinese top imperial garden – the Summer Palace. Discover the beliefs and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. No shops, no factories, no time-wasting, no hidden costs! • Look Mao's portrait at the world largest urban square – Tiananmen Square. • Skip the lines at the world largest imperial palace – the Forbidden City. • Walk along the willow path, feeling the elegance of Chinese top imperial garden – the Summer Palace. • Discover the beliefs and worship of Chinese emperors at the Temple of Heaven. • No shops, no factories, no time-wasting, no hidden costs! The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support The Design of the Day Trip • Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English • Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience • Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space • Trippest Beijing Office: 24/7 customer service, providing backup support Detailed Itinerary Close All 08:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time 8:00am. A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 8:00 AM - 10:30 AMVisit Tian'anmen Square and the Forbidden City The tour will be began from Tian'anmen Square where the famous Chairman Mao's portrait is hang on the wall of the Gate of Heavenly Peace. Like the Times Square in New York, Red Square in Moscow and St. Peter's Square, Tiananmen Square is a must-visit place for traveler to Beijing and is the largest public square in the world. You will have around 20 minutes there for taking photos. NOTE: Tian'anmen Square could be enforced martial law due to government activities temporarily, which we can NOT be informed in advance. So the tour guide may adjust the itinerary according to the situation. Tiananmen Square You will then have a short walk from Tian'anmen Square to the Forbidden City. The world's largest historical palatial complex, this massive walled compound dates from the 15th century, and was home to 14 Ming and 10 Qin emperors. Tour the main pavilions, halls and courtyards — the complex houses 800 buildings — and admire the classical Chinese architecture. The Forbidden City The Forbidden City Your tour guide will share tales of the royals who lived and ruled from here, more hidden story about this palace and any historic things with you. Guide explains the Forbidden City Good to Know: As the most popular attraction in Beijing, the Forbidden City receives many tourists everyday. Usually people have to stand in a queue to buy the tickets for a long time! In order to save your time, your tour guide will buy the tickets on-line in advance to avoid this situation. We will provide the FM headset while the group is more than 3 people. View exhibits in the Forbidden City 10:30 – 12:30 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven After that, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven. This is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages. Spending some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. Temple of Heaven in winter Admire the religious buildings and see the magnificent Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests, where the emperors prayed for fruitful harvests. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Customers in the front of the Temple of Heaven Practise Tai Chi in the Temple of Heaven 12:30 – 13:30 PMLunch Time Before go to the Summer Palace, take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch in our well-selected restaurant to taste local dishes. Enjoy lunch 13:30 – 16:30 PMVisit the Summer Palace In the afternoon, heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving to visit the world-famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. Full-view of Summer Palace It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. Riding boat on the lake Frozen river in winter Finished the boat trip, enjoy a leisurely stroll to admire the ornamental gardens, buildings, and other architectural gems. Best point for photographing Buildings in Summer Palace 16:30 – 17:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. Family tour in Summer Palace You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Close All 08:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time 8:00am. A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 8:00 AM - 10:30 AMVisit Tian'anmen Square and the Forbidden City The tour will be began from Tian'anmen Square where the famous Chairman Mao's portrait is hang on the wall of the Gate of Heavenly Peace. Like the Times Square in New York, Red Square in Moscow and St. Peter's Square, Tiananmen Square is a must-visit place for traveler to Beijing and is the largest public square in the world. You will have around 20 minutes there for taking photos. NOTE: Tian'anmen Square could be enforced martial law due to government activities temporarily, which we can NOT be informed in advance. So the tour guide may adjust the itinerary according to the situation. Tiananmen Square You will then have a short walk from Tian'anmen Square to the Forbidden City. The world's largest historical palatial complex, this massive walled compound dates from the 15th century, and was home to 14 Ming and 10 Qin emperors. Tour the main pavilions, halls and courtyards — the complex houses 800 buildings — and admire the classical Chinese architecture. The Forbidden City The Forbidden City Your tour guide will share tales of the royals who lived and ruled from here, more hidden story about this palace and any historic things with you. Guide explains the Forbidden City Good to Know: As the most popular attraction in Beijing, the Forbidden City receives many tourists everyday. Usually people have to stand in a queue to buy the tickets for a long time! In order to save your time, your tour guide will buy the tickets on-line in advance to avoid this situation. We will provide the FM headset while the group is more than 3 people. View exhibits in the Forbidden City 10:30 – 12:30 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven After that, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven. This is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages. Spending some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. Temple of Heaven in winter Admire the religious buildings and see the magnificent Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests, where the emperors prayed for fruitful harvests. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Customers in the front of the Temple of Heaven Practise Tai Chi in the Temple of Heaven 12:30 – 13:30 PMLunch Time Before go to the Summer Palace, take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch in our well-selected restaurant to taste local dishes. Enjoy lunch 13:30 – 16:30 PMVisit the Summer Palace In the afternoon, heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving to visit the world-famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. Full-view of Summer Palace It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. Riding boat on the lake Frozen river in winter Finished the boat trip, enjoy a leisurely stroll to admire the ornamental gardens, buildings, and other architectural gems. Best point for photographing Buildings in Summer Palace 16:30 – 17:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. Family tour in Summer Palace You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ 08:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time 8:00am. A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 08:00 AMHotel pick-up Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time 8:00am. A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby at an appointed time 8:00am. A moderate amount of walking is also involved in this day. Comfortable walking shoes are recommended. Your guide will await you at your hotel lobby 8:00 AM - 10:30 AMVisit Tian'anmen Square and the Forbidden City The tour will be began from Tian'anmen Square where the famous Chairman Mao's portrait is hang on the wall of the Gate of Heavenly Peace. Like the Times Square in New York, Red Square in Moscow and St. Peter's Square, Tiananmen Square is a must-visit place for traveler to Beijing and is the largest public square in the world. You will have around 20 minutes there for taking photos. NOTE: Tian'anmen Square could be enforced martial law due to government activities temporarily, which we can NOT be informed in advance. So the tour guide may adjust the itinerary according to the situation. Tiananmen Square You will then have a short walk from Tian'anmen Square to the Forbidden City. The world's largest historical palatial complex, this massive walled compound dates from the 15th century, and was home to 14 Ming and 10 Qin emperors. Tour the main pavilions, halls and courtyards — the complex houses 800 buildings — and admire the classical Chinese architecture. The Forbidden City The Forbidden City Your tour guide will share tales of the royals who lived and ruled from here, more hidden story about this palace and any historic things with you. Guide explains the Forbidden City Good to Know: As the most popular attraction in Beijing, the Forbidden City receives many tourists everyday. Usually people have to stand in a queue to buy the tickets for a long time! In order to save your time, your tour guide will buy the tickets on-line in advance to avoid this situation. We will provide the FM headset while the group is more than 3 people. View exhibits in the Forbidden City 8:00 AM - 10:30 AMVisit Tian'anmen Square and the Forbidden City The tour will be began from Tian'anmen Square where the famous Chairman Mao's portrait is hang on the wall of the Gate of Heavenly Peace. Like the Times Square in New York, Red Square in Moscow and St. Peter's Square, Tiananmen Square is a must-visit place for traveler to Beijing and is the largest public square in the world. You will have around 20 minutes there for taking photos. NOTE: Tian'anmen Square could be enforced martial law due to government activities temporarily, which we can NOT be informed in advance. So the tour guide may adjust the itinerary according to the situation. Tiananmen Square You will then have a short walk from Tian'anmen Square to the Forbidden City. The world's largest historical palatial complex, this massive walled compound dates from the 15th century, and was home to 14 Ming and 10 Qin emperors. Tour the main pavilions, halls and courtyards — the complex houses 800 buildings — and admire the classical Chinese architecture. The Forbidden City The Forbidden City Your tour guide will share tales of the royals who lived and ruled from here, more hidden story about this palace and any historic things with you. Guide explains the Forbidden City Good to Know: As the most popular attraction in Beijing, the Forbidden City receives many tourists everyday. Usually people have to stand in a queue to buy the tickets for a long time! In order to save your time, your tour guide will buy the tickets on-line in advance to avoid this situation. We will provide the FM headset while the group is more than 3 people. View exhibits in the Forbidden City The tour will be began from Tian'anmen Square where the famous Chairman Mao's portrait is hang on the wall of the Gate of Heavenly Peace. Like the Times Square in New York, Red Square in Moscow and St. Peter's Square, Tiananmen Square is a must-visit place for traveler to Beijing and is the largest public square in the world. You will have around 20 minutes there for taking photos. NOTE: Tian'anmen Square could be enforced martial law due to government activities temporarily, which we can NOT be informed in advance. So the tour guide may adjust the itinerary according to the situation. You will then have a short walk from Tian'anmen Square to the Forbidden City. The world's largest historical palatial complex, this massive walled compound dates from the 15th century, and was home to 14 Ming and 10 Qin emperors. Tour the main pavilions, halls and courtyards — the complex houses 800 buildings — and admire the classical Chinese architecture. Your tour guide will share tales of the royals who lived and ruled from here, more hidden story about this palace and any historic things with you. Guide explains the Forbidden City • As the most popular attraction in Beijing, the Forbidden City receives many tourists everyday. Usually people have to stand in a queue to buy the tickets for a long time! In order to save your time, your tour guide will buy the tickets on-line in advance to avoid this situation. • We will provide the FM headset while the group is more than 3 people. View exhibits in the Forbidden City 10:30 – 12:30 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven After that, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven. This is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages. Spending some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. Temple of Heaven in winter Admire the religious buildings and see the magnificent Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests, where the emperors prayed for fruitful harvests. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Customers in the front of the Temple of Heaven Practise Tai Chi in the Temple of Heaven 10:30 – 12:30 PMVisit the Temple of Heaven After that, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven. This is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages. Spending some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. Temple of Heaven in winter Admire the religious buildings and see the magnificent Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests, where the emperors prayed for fruitful harvests. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Customers in the front of the Temple of Heaven Practise Tai Chi in the Temple of Heaven After that, your guide and driver will take you to the Temple of Heaven. This is one sight not to miss when touring Beijing. The Altar, Echo Wall, and spectacular Imperial Vault are the highlights of most tour packages. Spending some time to discover that this was a fasting palace for the emperor. The emperor would fast at the palace before he held a ceremony to pray for a good harvest, and would abstain from meat and wine. Temple of Heaven in winter Admire the religious buildings and see the magnificent Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests, where the emperors prayed for fruitful harvests. You will also get a chance to glimpse at the pictures of all the emperors who ever worshipped in the Temple of Heaven, as well as a 600-year-old copper statue of a high ranking official who supervised the fasting process of the emperor. Customers in the front of the Temple of Heaven Practise Tai Chi in the Temple of Heaven 12:30 – 13:30 PMLunch Time Before go to the Summer Palace, take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch in our well-selected restaurant to taste local dishes. Enjoy lunch 12:30 – 13:30 PMLunch Time Before go to the Summer Palace, take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch in our well-selected restaurant to taste local dishes. Enjoy lunch Before go to the Summer Palace, take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch in our well-selected restaurant to taste local dishes. 13:30 – 16:30 PMVisit the Summer Palace In the afternoon, heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving to visit the world-famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. Full-view of Summer Palace It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. Riding boat on the lake Frozen river in winter Finished the boat trip, enjoy a leisurely stroll to admire the ornamental gardens, buildings, and other architectural gems. Best point for photographing Buildings in Summer Palace 13:30 – 16:30 PMVisit the Summer Palace In the afternoon, heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving to visit the world-famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. Full-view of Summer Palace It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. Riding boat on the lake Frozen river in winter Finished the boat trip, enjoy a leisurely stroll to admire the ornamental gardens, buildings, and other architectural gems. Best point for photographing Buildings in Summer Palace In the afternoon, heading to the Northwest of Beijing city. Approx. 50-miniute driving to visit the world-famous imperial garden called the Summer Palace. The imperial building was constructed by the emperor in celebration of his mother's birthday. Full-view of Summer Palace It is 273 hectares in size and is composed of three main scenic areas: the palace area, lake area, and mountain area. The best way to enjoy sightseeing at the Summer Palace is by taking a dragon boat on the lake (the boat trip is not available in winter as the lake would be frozen) and, on the way, you will have a chance to view all of the beautiful palaces at the side of the lake. Riding boat on the lake Frozen river in winter Finished the boat trip, enjoy a leisurely stroll to admire the ornamental gardens, buildings, and other architectural gems. Best point for photographing Buildings in Summer Palace 16:30 – 17:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. Family tour in Summer Palace You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ 16:30 – 17:30 PMTransfer back to hotel Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. Family tour in Summer Palace You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Your guide and driver will transfer you back to the hotel, making a perfect end to your Beijing panoramic tour with Trippest. Family tour in Summer Palace You may follow us on our Facebook page to see the latest updates, photos and posts from your tour guide at: https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ Price Include: Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. English-speaking professional tour guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Lunch. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Airport transfer. Price Include: Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. English-speaking professional tour guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Lunch. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Airport transfer. Price Include: Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. English-speaking professional tour guide service. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Personal expenses. Lunch. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Airport transfer. • Entrance fees to attractions listed in the itinerary. • Transport between hotel and attractions in the itinerary. • English-speaking professional tour guide service. • Bottled water. • Personal expenses. • Lunch. • Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person per day for each of them, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Airport transfer. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, there will be an extra charge. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, there will be an extra charge. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, there will be an extra charge. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City Hotel pickup and drop-off services are available within the 4th Ring Zone of Beijing, if it is outside of this area, there will be an extra charge. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Beijing City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 142 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 142 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 142 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20