ID: 44835bb2765944e
Title: China Train Tickets Booking, Realtime Schedule & Train Travel Tips
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/china-trains/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China Highlights Train Ticket Service China Train Int’l Train from China Journey: SEARCH 0Cart Train: Lao Cai Beijing Manzhouli Harbin Erlian Jining South Urumqi Please Select Nanning SEARCH Select Seats for Free. True Reviews on Trustpilot. 100% Failed Purchases Refunded. 24/7 One-to-One Service. We provide reliable and professional service throughout your journey planning and train travel in China. Whether you're seeking the exhilaration of high-speed trains or the comfort of overnight sleeper journeys, we cater to diverse preferences. Questions about train travel in China? Don't hesitate to reach out. A dedicated team member is always at your service, ensuring personalized support. Explore firsthand experiences shared by our satisfied customers on Trustpilot or TripAdvisor. China to Mongolia train tickets are now available—check them out on Beijing-Hohhot-Ulaanbaatar train China Highlights Train Ticket Service China Train Int’l Train from China Journey: SEARCH 0Cart Train: Lao Cai Beijing Manzhouli Harbin Erlian Jining South Urumqi Please Select Nanning SEARCH China Highlights Train Ticket Service China Train Int’l Train from China Journey: SEARCH 0Cart Train: Lao Cai Beijing Manzhouli Harbin Erlian Jining South Urumqi Please Select Nanning SEARCH • China Train • Int’l Train from China Train: Lao Cai Beijing Manzhouli Harbin Erlian Jining South Urumqi Please Select Nanning Lao Cai Beijing Manzhouli Harbin Erlian Jining South Urumqi Please Select Nanning Lao Cai Beijing Manzhouli Harbin Erlian Jining South Urumqi Please Select Nanning Lao Cai Beijing Manzhouli Harbin Erlian Jining South Urumqi Please Select Nanning Select Seats for Free. True Reviews on Trustpilot. 100% Failed Purchases Refunded. 24/7 One-to-One Service. Select Seats for Free. True Reviews on Trustpilot. 100% Failed Purchases Refunded. 24/7 One-to-One Service. Select Seats for Free. True Reviews on Trustpilot. 100% Failed Purchases Refunded. 24/7 One-to-One Service. Select Seats for Free. Select Seats for Free. True Reviews on Trustpilot. True Reviews on Trustpilot. 100% Failed Purchases Refunded. 100% Failed Purchases Refunded. 24/7 One-to-One Service. 24/7 One-to-One Service. We provide reliable and professional service throughout your journey planning and train travel in China. Whether you're seeking the exhilaration of high-speed trains or the comfort of overnight sleeper journeys, we cater to diverse preferences. Questions about train travel in China? Don't hesitate to reach out. A dedicated team member is always at your service, ensuring personalized support. Explore firsthand experiences shared by our satisfied customers on Trustpilot or TripAdvisor. China to Mongolia train tickets are now available—check them out on Beijing-Hohhot-Ulaanbaatar train Based on 486 reviews Based on 510 reviews Fantastic service for Chinese Trains Used China Highlights/Train spread for all my trains in china. Booked 7 trains with them and they were all straight forward. A few were changed by Chinese railway when booking but China highlights gave me alternatives needed and got everywhere I needed. Will definitely use again more October 28, 2025, Ben M Annie provided quick action and responses Annie provided prompt responses to my questions and requests through my visit this month in China. My train trip from Shenzhen to Xi'an was a highlight of my visit. Particularly insightful was Annie's recommendation to communicate on WeChat as a backup to email. That proved critical and made possible quick responses to my need to add tours and museum tickets to my itinerary. Thanks, Annie! more October 25, 2025, Bob R Good service Very good and trusted servic they have ordered a train ticket for me and my friend service was ok. And they answered quickly more October 13, 2025, david b GTop communication and service! We booked HSR tickets from Shanghai to Hong Kong for our family thought Chinahighlights.com. We placed a booking several months ahead as our travel date being in Golden Week, and we wanted to use a reliable and reputable travel agent for this. All communication and service was absolutely superb all the way through, and we would highly recommend China Highlighs and their affiliates! more October 12, 2025, Stian A Based on 510 reviews Fantastic service for Chinese Trains Used China Highlights/Train spread for all my trains in china. Booked 7 trains with them and they were all straight forward. A few were changed by Chinese railway when booking but China highlights gave me alternatives needed and got everywhere I needed. Will definitely use again more October 28, 2025, Ben M Annie provided quick action and responses Annie provided prompt responses to my questions and requests through my visit this month in China. My train trip from Shenzhen to Xi'an was a highlight of my visit. Particularly insightful was Annie's recommendation to communicate on WeChat as a backup to email. That proved critical and made possible quick responses to my need to add tours and museum tickets to my itinerary. Thanks, Annie! more October 25, 2025, Bob R Good service Very good and trusted servic they have ordered a train ticket for me and my friend service was ok. And they answered quickly more October 13, 2025, david b GTop communication and service! We booked HSR tickets from Shanghai to Hong Kong for our family thought Chinahighlights.com. We placed a booking several months ahead as our travel date being in Golden Week, and we wanted to use a reliable and reputable travel agent for this. All communication and service was absolutely superb all the way through, and we would highly recommend China Highlighs and their affiliates! more October 12, 2025, Stian A Fantastic service for Chinese Trains Used China Highlights/Train spread for all my trains in china. Booked 7 trains with them and they were all straight forward. A few were changed by Chinese railway when booking but China highlights gave me alternatives needed and got everywhere I needed. Will definitely use again more October 28, 2025, Ben M Fantastic service for Chinese Trains Used China Highlights/Train spread for all my trains in china. Booked 7 trains with them and they were all straight forward. A few were changed by Chinese railway when booking but China highlights gave me alternatives needed and got everywhere I needed. Will definitely use again more October 28, 2025, Ben M Used China Highlights/Train spread for all my trains in china. Booked 7 trains with them and they were all straight forward. A few were changed by Chinese railway when booking but China highlights gave me alternatives needed and got everywhere I needed. Will definitely use again October 28, 2025, Ben M Annie provided quick action and responses Annie provided prompt responses to my questions and requests through my visit this month in China. My train trip from Shenzhen to Xi'an was a highlight of my visit. Particularly insightful was Annie's recommendation to communicate on WeChat as a backup to email. That proved critical and made possible quick responses to my need to add tours and museum tickets to my itinerary. Thanks, Annie! more October 25, 2025, Bob R Annie provided quick action and responses Annie provided prompt responses to my questions and requests through my visit this month in China. My train trip from Shenzhen to Xi'an was a highlight of my visit. Particularly insightful was Annie's recommendation to communicate on WeChat as a backup to email. That proved critical and made possible quick responses to my need to add tours and museum tickets to my itinerary. Thanks, Annie! more October 25, 2025, Bob R Annie provided prompt responses to my questions and requests through my visit this month in China. My train trip from Shenzhen to Xi'an was a highlight of my visit. Particularly insightful was Annie's recommendation to communicate on WeChat as a backup to email. That proved critical and made possible quick responses to my need to add tours and museum tickets to my itinerary. Thanks, Annie! October 25, 2025, Bob R Good service Very good and trusted servic they have ordered a train ticket for me and my friend service was ok. And they answered quickly more October 13, 2025, david b Good service Very good and trusted servic they have ordered a train ticket for me and my friend service was ok. And they answered quickly more October 13, 2025, david b Very good and trusted servic they have ordered a train ticket for me and my friend service was ok. And they answered quickly October 13, 2025, david b GTop communication and service! We booked HSR tickets from Shanghai to Hong Kong for our family thought Chinahighlights.com. We placed a booking several months ahead as our travel date being in Golden Week, and we wanted to use a reliable and reputable travel agent for this. All communication and service was absolutely superb all the way through, and we would highly recommend China Highlighs and their affiliates! more October 12, 2025, Stian A GTop communication and service! We booked HSR tickets from Shanghai to Hong Kong for our family thought Chinahighlights.com. We placed a booking several months ahead as our travel date being in Golden Week, and we wanted to use a reliable and reputable travel agent for this. All communication and service was absolutely superb all the way through, and we would highly recommend China Highlighs and their affiliates! more October 12, 2025, Stian A We booked HSR tickets from Shanghai to Hong Kong for our family thought Chinahighlights.com. We placed a booking several months ahead as our travel date being in Golden Week, and we wanted to use a reliable and reputable travel agent for this. All communication and service was absolutely superb all the way through, and we would highly recommend China Highlighs and their affiliates! October 12, 2025, Stian A Popular High-Speed Train Routes Discover the latest travel durations and lowest fares for China's most popular high-speed rail routes Beijing Shanghai 4h from $73 Hong Kong Guangzhou 1h from $30 Beijing Xi'an 4h from $76 Hong Kong Guilin 4h from $51 Shanghai Hangzhou 45m from $10 Hong Kong Shenzhen 15m from $10 Xi'an Chengdu 3h from $37 Hong Kong Changsha 3h from $75 Things to Know Before Booking Train Tickets China Railway, a state-owned company, oversees all trains and railway lines in China, resulting in relatively straightforward booking and travel procedures compared to other countries. Nevertheless, foreign passengers should familiarize themselves with essential information on ticket purchasing, train boarding protocols, and the train interiors. Please refer to the articles listed below for detailed guidance. China High-Speed Rail 5 Ways to Buy Train Tickets in China Train Types and Seat Classes in China Tips for Your China Train Trip Taking a train in China is very different from in western countries. The article below may help make your journey smoother and more convenient. How to Take a Train in China China Train Baggage Allowance and Policy Top Chinese Phrases for China Train Travel 7 Things to Know Before Riding A Train in China Tips for Your First China Train Journey Food on China Train Explore China on Train Hot China Bullet Train Routes Beijing - Shanghai Shanghai - Hangzhou Guangzhou - Shenzhen - Hong Kong 16 Main China High-Speed Routes Hot Tourist Train Routes Chengdu to Kunming—Geological Museum Xi'an to Urumqi—Silk Road Journey Xining to Lhasa—Way to the Sky Hot Cross-Border Train Routes China – Vietnam Trains China to Russia Trains Beijing – Ulaanbaatar Trains Urumqi to Almaty/Astana Trains China Train Travel FAQs You may encounters questions when buying China train tickets during your train travel in China. The frequently asked questions below regarding ticktet booking, ticket change & cancelltion, and train travel may be helpful to you. Read more about China Train FAQs. Expand All 1. How many days in advance can I book China train tickets? China train tickets released 15 days before departure online. At train stations and ticket agencies, tickets go on sale 15 days in advance. But you can book tickets with China Highlights more than 15 days ahead. Actually, it is recommended that you book tickets with us as early as possible, especially during Chinese holidays and peak periods. 2.What can I do if tickets are sold out for my route? Even tickets are sold out for a route, sometimes we can still find alternatives. Please call us or send us an email to find out the possibility. If tickets are sold out after you place the order, we will provide alternatives and suggestions if your first choice is unavailable. Payments are 100% refundable if we are not able to obtain your tickets. 3. I filled out the wrong name/passport number when making the booking, what should I do? Before your tickets are issued, we can change the name/passport number in our system and use the correct passenger's information to issue tickets. After tickets are issued, we are not able to change the passengers' information. New tickets need to be issued with the correct name/passport number. 4. Can I use e-tickets to board the train? E-ticket services are available for all trains in China. You can check in with your passports at the manual check point to board the train, with no need to collect a paper ticket. Popular High-Speed Train Routes Discover the latest travel durations and lowest fares for China's most popular high-speed rail routes Beijing Shanghai 4h from $73 Hong Kong Guangzhou 1h from $30 Beijing Xi'an 4h from $76 Hong Kong Guilin 4h from $51 Shanghai Hangzhou 45m from $10 Hong Kong Shenzhen 15m from $10 Xi'an Chengdu 3h from $37 Hong Kong Changsha 3h from $75 Popular High-Speed Train Routes Discover the latest travel durations and lowest fares for China's most popular high-speed rail routes Beijing Shanghai 4h from $73 Hong Kong Guangzhou 1h from $30 Beijing Xi'an 4h from $76 Hong Kong Guilin 4h from $51 Shanghai Hangzhou 45m from $10 Hong Kong Shenzhen 15m from $10 Xi'an Chengdu 3h from $37 Hong Kong Changsha 3h from $75 Beijing Shanghai 4h from $73 Beijing Shanghai 4h from $73 Hong Kong Guangzhou 1h from $30 Hong Kong Guangzhou 1h from $30 Beijing Xi'an 4h from $76 Beijing Xi'an 4h from $76 Hong Kong Guilin 4h from $51 Hong Kong Guilin 4h from $51 Shanghai Hangzhou 45m from $10 Shanghai Hangzhou 45m from $10 Hong Kong Shenzhen 15m from $10 Hong Kong Shenzhen 15m from $10 Xi'an Chengdu 3h from $37 Xi'an Chengdu 3h from $37 Hong Kong Changsha 3h from $75 Hong Kong Changsha 3h from $75 Things to Know Before Booking Train Tickets China Railway, a state-owned company, oversees all trains and railway lines in China, resulting in relatively straightforward booking and travel procedures compared to other countries. Nevertheless, foreign passengers should familiarize themselves with essential information on ticket purchasing, train boarding protocols, and the train interiors. Please refer to the articles listed below for detailed guidance. China High-Speed Rail 5 Ways to Buy Train Tickets in China Train Types and Seat Classes in China China High-Speed Rail 5 Ways to Buy Train Tickets in China Train Types and Seat Classes in China Tips for Your China Train Trip Taking a train in China is very different from in western countries. The article below may help make your journey smoother and more convenient. How to Take a Train in China China Train Baggage Allowance and Policy Top Chinese Phrases for China Train Travel How to Take a Train in China China Train Baggage Allowance and Policy Top Chinese Phrases for China Train Travel 7 Things to Know Before Riding A Train in China Tips for Your First China Train Journey Food on China Train 7 Things to Know Before Riding A Train in China Tips for Your First China Train Journey Explore China on Train Hot China Bullet Train Routes Beijing - Shanghai Shanghai - Hangzhou Guangzhou - Shenzhen - Hong Kong 16 Main China High-Speed Routes Hot Tourist Train Routes Chengdu to Kunming—Geological Museum Xi'an to Urumqi—Silk Road Journey Xining to Lhasa—Way to the Sky Hot Cross-Border Train Routes China – Vietnam Trains China to Russia Trains Beijing – Ulaanbaatar Trains Urumqi to Almaty/Astana Trains Hot China Bullet Train Routes Beijing - Shanghai Shanghai - Hangzhou Guangzhou - Shenzhen - Hong Kong 16 Main China High-Speed Routes Hot Tourist Train Routes Chengdu to Kunming—Geological Museum Xi'an to Urumqi—Silk Road Journey Xining to Lhasa—Way to the Sky Hot Cross-Border Train Routes China – Vietnam Trains China to Russia Trains Beijing – Ulaanbaatar Trains Urumqi to Almaty/Astana Trains Hot China Bullet Train Routes Beijing - Shanghai Shanghai - Hangzhou Guangzhou - Shenzhen - Hong Kong 16 Main China High-Speed Routes Hot China Bullet Train Routes Beijing - Shanghai Shanghai - Hangzhou Guangzhou - Shenzhen - Hong Kong 16 Main China High-Speed Routes Hot China Bullet Train Routes • Beijing - Shanghai • Shanghai - Hangzhou • Guangzhou - Shenzhen - Hong Kong • 16 Main China High-Speed Routes Hot Tourist Train Routes Chengdu to Kunming—Geological Museum Xi'an to Urumqi—Silk Road Journey Xining to Lhasa—Way to the Sky Hot Tourist Train Routes Chengdu to Kunming—Geological Museum Xi'an to Urumqi—Silk Road Journey Xining to Lhasa—Way to the Sky Hot Tourist Train Routes • Chengdu to Kunming—Geological Museum • Xi'an to Urumqi—Silk Road Journey • Xining to Lhasa—Way to the Sky Hot Cross-Border Train Routes China – Vietnam Trains China to Russia Trains Beijing – Ulaanbaatar Trains Urumqi to Almaty/Astana Trains Hot Cross-Border Train Routes China – Vietnam Trains China to Russia Trains Beijing – Ulaanbaatar Trains Urumqi to Almaty/Astana Trains Hot Cross-Border Train Routes • China – Vietnam Trains • China to Russia Trains • Beijing – Ulaanbaatar Trains • Urumqi to Almaty/Astana Trains China Train Travel FAQs You may encounters questions when buying China train tickets during your train travel in China. The frequently asked questions below regarding ticktet booking, ticket change & cancelltion, and train travel may be helpful to you. Read more about China Train FAQs. Expand All 1. How many days in advance can I book China train tickets? China train tickets released 15 days before departure online. At train stations and ticket agencies, tickets go on sale 15 days in advance. But you can book tickets with China Highlights more than 15 days ahead. Actually, it is recommended that you book tickets with us as early as possible, especially during Chinese holidays and peak periods. 2.What can I do if tickets are sold out for my route? Even tickets are sold out for a route, sometimes we can still find alternatives. Please call us or send us an email to find out the possibility. If tickets are sold out after you place the order, we will provide alternatives and suggestions if your first choice is unavailable. Payments are 100% refundable if we are not able to obtain your tickets. 3. I filled out the wrong name/passport number when making the booking, what should I do? Before your tickets are issued, we can change the name/passport number in our system and use the correct passenger's information to issue tickets. After tickets are issued, we are not able to change the passengers' information. New tickets need to be issued with the correct name/passport number. 4. Can I use e-tickets to board the train? E-ticket services are available for all trains in China. You can check in with your passports at the manual check point to board the train, with no need to collect a paper ticket. 1. How many days in advance can I book China train tickets? China train tickets released 15 days before departure online. At train stations and ticket agencies, tickets go on sale 15 days in advance. But you can book tickets with China Highlights more than 15 days ahead. Actually, it is recommended that you book tickets with us as early as possible, especially during Chinese holidays and peak periods. China train tickets released 15 days before departure online. At train stations and ticket agencies, tickets go on sale 15 days in advance. But you can book tickets with China Highlights more than 15 days ahead. Actually, it is recommended that you book tickets with us as early as possible, especially during Chinese holidays and peak periods. 2.What can I do if tickets are sold out for my route? Even tickets are sold out for a route, sometimes we can still find alternatives. Please call us or send us an email to find out the possibility. If tickets are sold out after you place the order, we will provide alternatives and suggestions if your first choice is unavailable. Payments are 100% refundable if we are not able to obtain your tickets. • Even tickets are sold out for a route, sometimes we can still find alternatives. Please call us or send us an email to find out the possibility. • If tickets are sold out after you place the order, we will provide alternatives and suggestions if your first choice is unavailable. Payments are 100% refundable if we are not able to obtain your tickets. 3. I filled out the wrong name/passport number when making the booking, what should I do? Before your tickets are issued, we can change the name/passport number in our system and use the correct passenger's information to issue tickets. After tickets are issued, we are not able to change the passengers' information. New tickets need to be issued with the correct name/passport number. • Before your tickets are issued, we can change the name/passport number in our system and use the correct passenger's information to issue tickets. • After tickets are issued, we are not able to change the passengers' information. New tickets need to be issued with the correct name/passport number. 4. Can I use e-tickets to board the train? E-ticket services are available for all trains in China. You can check in with your passports at the manual check point to board the train, with no need to collect a paper ticket. E-ticket services are available for all trains in China. You can check in with your passports at the manual check point to board the train, with no need to collect a paper ticket.