ID: c5889705338c40e
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Yunnan 2026: Where to Go, Itinerary
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yunnan/yunnan-trip-planner.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Yunnan province, in southwest China, is rich in incredible landscapes, ethnic cultures, and historical sites. It is one of China's top places for relaxing, photography, hiking, and mountaineering. Use this page for inspiration and to prepare for your Yunnan tour. • Choose Where to Go • How Long to Stay • Best Times • Transportation Yunnan has many cities worth visiting. Faced with a wealth of options, we have selected some must-visit and special-interest cities to help you make your choice. Kunming: Gateway to Yunnan Our guests touring the Stone Forest As Yunnan's capital, Kunming is the best entry point to the region because it serves more international and domestic flights. It is recommended to stay in Kunming for 1–2 days. The main attractions include: • The Stone Forest (a must-visit) • Dianchi Lake (recommended in winter for the seagulls; in summer, you could just enjoy the lake views) • Dounan Flower Market: This is strongly recommended, even if you don't plan to buy anything as you would be amazed by the variety and scale. It is the largest flower trading market in Asia. Lijiang: Recommended for First-Timers Blue Moon Valley, at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Lijiang features romantic ancient towns and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, both of which are must-visit attractions. If you are interested in the Naxi culture of Lijiang, you could visit Baisha Village at the foot of the snow mountain, the original settlement and earliest political center of the Naxi people. There, you could learn about the local lifestyle and culture. Exploring Lijiang typically requires about 2 days. However, if you want a more in-depth visit, you could extend your stay by 1–3 days. For a relaxing sightseeing visit, you could go to Lugu Lake or, if you enjoy outdoor activities, you could choose a hike through Tiger Leaping Gorge. See our 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Tour. Dali: Recommended for First-Timers Our guest biking along Erhai Lake Dali is another must-visit destination in Yunnan. It has become even more popular due to the Chinese romantic drama Meet Yourself. A trip to Dali typically lasts 2–4 days. Drive alongside Erhai Lake or take an Erhai cruise to feel the breeze and admire the sparkling lake with the distant Cang Mountain in the background. Wander around Xizhou Town, try local snacks, view typical Bai houses, and take beautiful photos. Dali Old Town is best visited at night when it is livelier. If you want to experience local life, visit Zhoucheng at the foot of Cang Mountain. There, you could see the traditional stone wall architecture of the Bai people, residents in ethnic costumes, and the morning market. You could also try tie-dyeing. If you are a fan of the Meet Yourself drama, 8-Day 'Meet Yourself' Yunnan Tour could take you to the filming locations, including Shaxi Ancient Town and Fengyangyi Village. Shangri-La: Tibetan Culture Immersion Shangri-La is also one of the main tourist destinations in Yunnan, especially if you are interested in Tibetan culture and highland scenery. A typical visit to Shangri-La lasts 2 days and covers the main attractions, including Dukezong Ancient Town, Songzanlin Monastery, and Pudacuo National Park. The Meili Snow Mountains, a famous attraction, are not actually in Shangri-La but in Deqin, a 3-hour drive away. If you want to visit, it's recommended to set aside an extra day. Shangri-La also offers beautiful grassland scenery, where you could enjoy a starry night with a bonfire on the grasslands. Shangri-La provides excellent hiking opportunities, such as the Yubeng Trek, a top hiking route for snowy mountain views that usually takes 4 days. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan If You Want More Options… Besides the popular destinations mentioned above, Yunnan also boasts several diverse and less-discovered treasures. If you're interested in any of these places, you could easily include them in your Yunnan travel plans: • Xishuangbanna: Best for experiencing tropical rainforest scenery and Dai culture. The Water-Splashing Festival in April is a major highlight. • Jianshui: Ideal for ancient Chinese architecture enthusiasts. Discover ancient villages and bridges in the countryside and walk through the peaceful streets of the ancient town. • Nujiang: Nujiang Grand Canyon's magnificent scenery is perfect for adventure and hiking enthusiasts. There, you could feel the raw power of nature and visit isolated villages to experience the primitive customs of minority ethnic groups. • Yuanyang: The Yuanyang Rice Terraces are the main attraction, being ideal for photography and nature lovers. • Tengchong: Known for its volcanic geothermal landscapes and borderland charm. You could enjoy hot springs and volcanic topography, and learn about its rich historical culture. • Mangshi: This border town next to Myanmar has the best climate in Yunnan. It's full of Southeast Asian charm and has a relaxed pace of life and delicious food. • Shiping: When you're tired of commercialized attractions and want to explore quiet and simple towns, Shiping is a good choice. There are very few tourists there, only local residents, and well-preserved centuries-old cultural relics and historical sites. How Long to Spend in Yunnan For a first visit to Yunnan, you would need at least 1 week for a trip to Kunming, Lijiang, Dali, and Shangri-La. You could refer to our 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour for inspiration. With 9 or 10 days, you could have more opportunities there to experience the ethnic cultures, such as learning to tie-dye and do some outdoor activities, such as biking and hiking. See our 9-Day Yunnan Family Tour. If you want to experience the tropical scenery and Dai culture, then you could spend about a week exploring Xishuangbanna and Pu'er. See our 6-Day Xishuangbanna and Pu'er Tour. They are also good choices for a warm Christmas/New Year celebration. There are also some off-the-beaten-path destinations in Yunnan. If you have more time or if this is your second visit to Yunnan and you want to explore more deeply, you could go to Nujiang, Yuanyang, and other places as we have recommended above. Each may need about 2 to 3 days. If you need help making your Yunnan plan or need advice, feel free to contact us. All of our tours could be customized or adjusted based on your requirements. Best Times to Visit Yunnan The view of Erhai Lake in Dali in November Yunnan is located at a high altitude and a low latitude. Therefore, most cities are cooler in summer and milder in winter. Major cities, such as Kunming, Lijiang, Dali, and Shangri-La are suitable for visiting year-round. However, each season has its own specially recommended destinations. Spring (March to May) in Yunnan is the season for oceans of flowers. The best places to see these sights are Kunming, Dali, Luoping, and Xishuangbanna. See our 5-Day Spring Tour to Kunming, Luoping, and Wanfenglin. Summer (June to September) in Yunnan is a good season to escape China's heat. We recommend Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La. Autumn (October to November) in Yunnan is busy with golden harvests and it's a season to enjoy clear blue skies. We recommend Dongchuan, Shangri-La, Lijiang, Dali, and Kunming. Winter (December to February) in Yunnan is the best season to admire snowcapped mountains, the rainforest, hot springs, or mirror-like rice terraces. The best places to experience such views are Xishuangbanna, Yuanyang, Lijiang, and Tengchong. See our 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour. For more seasonal recommendations, see Best Times to Visit Yunnan. The budget depends on where, when, how many people, how many days, the hotel class, a private or group tour, the transport, and other requirements you may have. You could get the approximate price from our 8-Day Yunnan Tour (based on two people for a private tour) for reference. The price of 8 days would be about 1,500 USD per person (190 USD daily), including private transfers in Yunnan, meals, admission fees, guiding, hotels, etc. Due to its proximity to Southeast Asia, international flights directly to Yunnan usually originate from Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia, as well as a cross-border train from Laos. Kunming serves as the primary destination city for these international flights. If you are coming from a European or an American country, typically, you would need to fly first to Beijing or Shanghai and then connect to Kunming, Dali, or Lijiang. Bullet trains are also available from big cities like Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Yunnan's neighboring provinces (Sichuan, Guizhou, and Guangxi) to Kunming, but train rides take 6–12 hours or more. Flying would be faster. Traveling Around Yunnan Bullet trains operate around Yunnan, such as from Kunming to Dali, Dali to Lijiang, and Lijiang to Shangri-La. Our private tours include all transport in Yunnan (and the rest of China), including airport pickups, private transfers, and city-to-city connections. We can help you maximize your Yunnan travel experience by suggesting less-commercialized attractions, traditional cultural experiences, authentic local cuisine, and locally-themed boutique accommodation. Here are our most popular Yunnan tours and all of these tours can be customized.