ID: 20e86f36058ec2e2
Title: 10 Things You MUST Know about Beijing Layovers
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/beijing/things-you-must-know-about-beijing-layovers.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-06-10T00:00:00
================================================================================

In this article, we list 10 things you need to know about layovers at Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK) and Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX) that will ease many of your concerns and help you make the most of your Beijing stopover. • 1. Do I Need a Visa For a Layover? • 2. Can I Leave Beijing Airports? • 3. 6 Steps to Leave the Airport • 4. If You Do Not Leave the Airport • 5. How Far is Airports to the Great Wall or City? • 6. How to See the Great Wall in an 8-10-Hour Layover • 7. How to See Beijing and the Great Wall in a 12-Hour-Plus Layover • 8. Explore Beijing on Your Own • 9. What to Do in Less Than 8 Hours • 10. Can I Sleep Overnight in Beijing Airports? 1. Do I Need a Visa For a Layover in Beijing Airports? Now, for most travelers from countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Italy, Spain, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, a visa is not required. See how to visit China without a visa. All you need is a valid passport, an airplane ticket that displays confirmed seats for your connecting flight, and a completed arrival/departure card, which can be filled out either at the airport or on the airplane. For some countries that don't have visa-free access, like Algeria and India, you don't need a visa if you stay within the airport. However, if you leave the airport, a visa is required. 2. Can I Leave Beijing Airports During My Layover? Yes, if you have a visa or qualify for the visa-free transit policy. Notice: Some travelers have reported being denied exit from the airport for layovers shorter than 8 hours, possibly due to concerns about insufficient transit time. Although there is no official rule on the allowable time to leave the airport, we recommend checking with your airline or the airport if your layover is 8 hours or less to confirm before making plans. Some travelers have reported being denied exit from the airport for layovers shorter than 8 hours, possibly due to concerns about insufficient transit time. Although there is no official rule on the allowable time to leave the airport, we recommend checking with your airline or the airport if your layover is 8 hours or less to confirm before making plans. 3. 6 Steps to Leave the Airport During Your Beijing Layover • Step 1. Pass the health/quarantine check. In the rare event of a major international epidemic outbreak or during some special periods, you will be asked to fill out a health declaration form upon entry/exit. • Step 2. Pass the immigration inspection. Prepare your passport, your visa (if required), and your departure/arrival card. Before flying to China, print out the confirmation of your onward flight that takes you out of China. • Step 3. Submit an application to the immigration inspection authority to leave the restricted area. This is a small white and blue form called the "Arrival Card for Temporary Entry Foreigners". • Step 4. Claim your luggage. At Capital Airport, most international flights land at Terminal 3, and there is an APM train to take you from Zone E to Zone C to reach the baggage claim area. At Daxing Airport, there is only one terminal, and you will collect luggage at carousels 1–4 and 7–10 on the first floor. • Step 5. Pass through the China customs inspection and declare your goods. Your luggage must go through quarantine and customs inspection. If you have items to declare, please use the red lane and fill out the form; if not, just use the green lane. • Step 6. Exit the airport. China customs at the Capital Airport Please note: The time it takes to pass through immigration and customs is normally 1.5 to 2 hours, depending on your citizenship and the destination you are flying from or to. You could fill out the temporary entry card either on the plane, at the airport counter, or using self-service machines (which are more efficient) in the airport. Make sure you are in the right line, as sometimes the lines are long and the signs for each line are not very visible from a distance. If you have booked a layover tour in Beijing and are stuck trying to deal with the visa-free process, you may call your local tour guide, who will be waiting for you in the arrival hall and ready to offer any help possible via phone. Having a pen in your pocket is quite handy at this point. • The time it takes to pass through immigration and customs is normally 1.5 to 2 hours, depending on your citizenship and the destination you are flying from or to. • You could fill out the temporary entry card either on the plane, at the airport counter, or using self-service machines (which are more efficient) in the airport. • Make sure you are in the right line, as sometimes the lines are long and the signs for each line are not very visible from a distance. • If you have booked a layover tour in Beijing and are stuck trying to deal with the visa-free process, you may call your local tour guide, who will be waiting for you in the arrival hall and ready to offer any help possible via phone. • Having a pen in your pocket is quite handy at this point. 4. If You Do Not Intend to Leave the Airport In this case, the procedures are similar, except there is no need to fill out the temporary entry card. When you have completed the procedures, go straight to the restricted zone to wait for your next flight. You will find all sorts of facilities there designed for layover passengers, such as restrooms, charging points, café bars, a smoking room, and a Wi-Fi lounge. 5. How Far is Beijing Airports to the Great Wall or Beijing City? From Capital Airport: • City center: 25 km, about 1 hour by car • Mutianyu or Badaling Great Wall (closer, well-restored, more tourists): 65-80 km, about 1.5 hours by car • Jinshanling or Simatai Great Wall (farther, more original, fewer tourists): 150 km, about 2-2.5 hours by car • City center: 46 km, about 1.5 hours by car • Mutianyu or Badaling Great Wall: 130 km, about 2 hours by car • Jinshanling or Simatai Great Wall: 200-220 km, about 3 hours by car Learn more about which section of the Great Wall is the best one to visit and whether the Badaling or Mutianyu section is better to visit. The most comfortable way to travel there is by driving a rental car. There is also an Airport Express operating to the downtown area. Learn more about how to get to Beijing City from Beijing airport. Please note: If you are arriving on the weekend, during Chinese national holidays, or going into the city during rush hours, the time to get there can be stretched even longer due to heavier traffic or traffic jams. If you are arriving on the weekend, during Chinese national holidays, or going into the city during rush hours, the time to get there can be stretched even longer due to heavier traffic or traffic jams. 6. How to See the Great Wall in an 8-10-Hour Beijing Layover If your layover at Capital Airport is over 8 hours, or over 9 hours at Daxing Airport, you have enough time to visit the Great Wall. As the capital city, Beijing has traffic problems like anywhere else in the world, and there is no efficient public bus service that goes directly from Beijing airports to the Great Wall. Therefore, arrange a layover tour in advance with a private vehicle and an English-speaking guide to save time and avoid any hassle. This is the best way to maximize your Beijing layover time, and it is quite affordable too. Below is a suggested timeline for visiting the Great Wall from Capital Airport during a 10-hour layover. If you only have 8 hours, the time spent at the Great Wall and for lunch can be slightly shortened to suit your flight schedule: • 2 hours: PEK customs and immigration process • 1.5 hours: drive to the Mutianyu Great Wall • 2 hours: explore the Wall; take a cable car to ascend/descend or climb it by foot • 1 hour: quick lunch to taste local food • 1.5 hours: drive back to PEK • 2 hours: check-in and pass through immigration If you have interest, see our 1-Day Beijing Layover Tour. 7. How to See Beijing and the Great Wall in a 12-Hour-Plus Beijing Layover If you have a layover of 12 hours or more, you can consider adding some city sights to your itinerary, such as the Forbidden City (2–3 hours). You may also include other options depending on your preferences and available time: walk through the hutongs to see the Drum and Bell Towers (2 hours), visit the Lama Temple (1 hour), or go boating to relax at the Summer Palace (1–2 hours). Below is a suggested timeline for visiting the Great Wall and the Forbidden City from Capital Airport during a 12-hour layover: • 2 hours: PEK customs and immigration process • 1.5 hours: drive to Mutianyu Great Wall • 2 hours: explore the wall; take a cable car to ascend/descend or climb it by foot • 1.5 hours: return to the city • 1 hour: a quick lunch to taste local food • 2-3 hours: visit Tian'anmen Square and the Forbidden City • 1 hour: drive back to PEK • 2 hours: check-in and pass through immigration Please note: The Great Wall usually opens from 7:30 am to 5 pm. Therefore, please choose your Great Wall tour carefully based on the opening hours of each section. The Forbidden City closes at 5 pm during peak season and 4:30 pm during shoulder season. The last entry for tourists is 1 hour before closing. The Forbidden City is closed on Mondays. You will need your passport to purchase or register for tickets. If you arrive in Beijing in summer (June to August), temperatures may rise above 35°C (95°F), which can be very hot. You could choose some indoor attractions, such as boating in the Summer Palace or visiting the National Museum. If you arrive in Beijing in winter (December to February), temperatures can drop below 0°C (32°F) and it can get very cold. Book a tour with us in advance, and your guide will bring you a warm jacket if you're not dressed for winter weather. • The Great Wall usually opens from 7:30 am to 5 pm. Therefore, please choose your Great Wall tour carefully based on the opening hours of each section. • The Forbidden City closes at 5 pm during peak season and 4:30 pm during shoulder season. The last entry for tourists is 1 hour before closing. • The Forbidden City is closed on Mondays. You will need your passport to purchase or register for tickets. • If you arrive in Beijing in summer (June to August), temperatures may rise above 35°C (95°F), which can be very hot. You could choose some indoor attractions, such as boating in the Summer Palace or visiting the National Museum. • If you arrive in Beijing in winter (December to February), temperatures can drop below 0°C (32°F) and it can get very cold. Book a tour with us in advance, and your guide will bring you a warm jacket if you're not dressed for winter weather. Learn more about Best (and Worst) Times to Visit Beijing. Recommended Tours: Half-Day Beijing Walking Tour in a Neighborhood 1-Day Beijing Hutong Tour All our itineraries are custom-made and flexible. Feel free to contact us. • Half-Day Beijing Walking Tour in a Neighborhood • 1-Day Beijing Hutong Tour All our itineraries are custom-made and flexible. Feel free to contact us. 8. Explore Beijing on Your Own During Your Beijing Layover In this case, visiting the Great Wall becomes almost impossible due to taxi arrangements, bargaining, and language barriers. Below is a simple 11-hour Beijing layover city sightseeing timeline from Capital Airport to give you a basic idea of what you can do: • 2 hours: PEK customs and immigration process • 20 minutes: store your luggage at PEK • 1 hour 10 minutes: take the Airport Express to Dongzhimen • 5 minutes: take Beijing subway Line 2 from Dongzhimen to Jianguomen • 5 minutes: take Line 1 from Jianguomen to Tian'anmen East • 30-50 minutes: queue for the Forbidden City tickets • 30 minutes: queue for Tian'anmen security checks; this takes longer on weekends or holidays • 1-2 hours: a quick self-guided walk through the Forbidden City • 10 minutes: transfer from Line 1 to Line 2 • 1 hour 10 minutes: take the Airport Express back to PEK • 20 minutes: collect your luggage • 2 hours: check-in and prepare to board your flight You can save time by flagging down taxis both ways when going to and from the Forbidden City. This will take about 1 hour each way and cost approximately 150 yuan ($22). Reasons It Is Not Recommended to Explore on Your Own During a Beijing Layover Visiting the Great Wall during your layover is nearly impossible without an insider's help. Although you can take taxis to city attractions, heavy traffic jams are a major drawback. It is difficult to flag down a taxi near the Forbidden City, especially when you urgently need to get back to the airport for your connecting flight. This happens because the entire area, including Tian'anmen Square, is restricted for parking. Taxis will not stop unless you find the designated spots to hail one. Reasons It Is Not Recommended to Explore on Your Own During a Beijing Layover • Visiting the Great Wall during your layover is nearly impossible without an insider's help. • Although you can take taxis to city attractions, heavy traffic jams are a major drawback. • It is difficult to flag down a taxi near the Forbidden City, especially when you urgently need to get back to the airport for your connecting flight. This happens because the entire area, including Tian'anmen Square, is restricted for parking. Taxis will not stop unless you find the designated spots to hail one. 9. What to Do in Less Than 8 Hours During a Beijing Layover The first and last 2 hours of your layover will be spent on customs and immigration, so you only actually have about 4 hours free. Traveling to and from the city center takes about 2 hours from Capital Airport and 3 hours from Daxing Airport. That leaves you only 1 to 2 hours of free time. To avoid fatigue, we recommend staying at the airport and enjoying activities there. Eating: Both airports have Quanjude Peking Duck and popular Chinese milk tea. Shopping: Both airports have Beijing souvenir shops, brand stores, and luxury boutiques. Daxing Airport offers a better shopping experience with city-equivalent pricing and a Popoland shop featuring exclusive products. Showering: Capital Airport does not have free showers. You could only use VIP lounges or hotel facilities. Daxing Airport offers free showers near baggage carousels 2 and 9 on the first floor. These are inside customs, so be careful not to exit if you want to shower. If you're at Daxing Airport, you can also visit the Chinese garden near gate E83 to enjoy a stroll and admire classical Chinese landscaping. 10. Can I Sleep Overnight in Beijing Airports? Yes You can sleep overnight at both airports. Inside both airports, you'll find free lounge chairs, sofas, and massage chairs in public areas. There are also paid sleep pods and airport hotels, but their facilities are basic and the prices are relatively high. For a more comfortable rest, hotels near the airport usually offer better value and more amenities. However, you'll need to pass immigration to exit the airport, which requires either a visa or qualifying for the visa-free transit policy.