ID: 12d22a28dd00ca71
Title: Half-day Shanghai French Concession Biking Tour with Food Tasting
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/shanghai/half-day-shanghai-biking-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Shanghai is a megacity that showcases some of the world's tallest buildings, fastest trains and elevators, and finest restaurants. Despite its ultra-modern reputation, Shanghai has cozy streets filled with bike-riding nappers and seniors with their bird cages. This bike tour will take you to discover the real Shanghai like a local, explore the Former French Concession, pedals around Fuxing Park, stroll through a traditional wet market, visit a hidden Buddhist temple, and refuel with delicious coffee and pastries. Tour Highlights Explore the Former French Concession where foreigners like to hang out the most in Shanghai. Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. Discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city. Tasting a exquisite artisanal coffee and local snacks in China's most competitive coffee city. A vintage bicycle for unique riding pleasure and blending with Locals. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We will meet at the Jade Buddha Temple, 170 An Yuan Lu, Jing An Qu, Shanghai. Find Your guide with holding a board of "TRIPPEST" waiting at the entrance of Jade Buddha Temple. 9:00 - 12:00 AMVisiting Shanghai by bike First stop will be at the Jing'an Sculputure Park which is a nice park to sit in the hustle and bustle of Shanghai. The neighborhood outside of the park has many other artistic aspects, like some good restaurants, boutiques, shopping, strolling and more. Then we will biking through the Former French Concession. Shanghai French Concession is a historical area in Shanghai, China that emerged during the French colonial period, lasting from 1849 to 1946. Covering an area of approximately 6.8 square kilometers, it was a jurisdiction granted to France, maintaining its own distinct identity. Take a leisurely stroll along its tree-lined streets and marvel at the elegant European architecture. Explore the charming boutiques, cafes, and restaurants that reflect the area's cosmopolitan past. Feel the unique charm of Shanghai French Concession and immerse yourself in its rich cultural heritage. Next, we will get to the Fazang Temple to discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city, known only to locals. The final stop will arrive at the Fuxing Park. Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. 12:00 – 13:00PMEnjoy delicious food and end the tour. After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this tour ends with tasting some great local food for lunch and biking back to the place where we started. Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Price Include: Vintage bicycle English-speaking guide Helmet Bottle of Water A exquisite artisanal coffee Local food tasting Entry/Admission - Fazang Temple Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up Gratuities FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Check Availability For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 99 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Shanghai is a megacity that showcases some of the world's tallest buildings, fastest trains and elevators, and finest restaurants. Despite its ultra-modern reputation, Shanghai has cozy streets filled with bike-riding nappers and seniors with their bird cages. This bike tour will take you to discover the real Shanghai like a local, explore the Former French Concession, pedals around Fuxing Park, stroll through a traditional wet market, visit a hidden Buddhist temple, and refuel with delicious coffee and pastries. Shanghai is a megacity that showcases some of the world's tallest buildings, fastest trains and elevators, and finest restaurants. Despite its ultra-modern reputation, Shanghai has cozy streets filled with bike-riding nappers and seniors with their bird cages. This bike tour will take you to discover the real Shanghai like a local, explore the Former French Concession, pedals around Fuxing Park, stroll through a traditional wet market, visit a hidden Buddhist temple, and refuel with delicious coffee and pastries. Tour Highlights Explore the Former French Concession where foreigners like to hang out the most in Shanghai. Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. Discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city. Tasting a exquisite artisanal coffee and local snacks in China's most competitive coffee city. A vintage bicycle for unique riding pleasure and blending with Locals. • Explore the Former French Concession where foreigners like to hang out the most in Shanghai. • Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. • Discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city. • Tasting a exquisite artisanal coffee and local snacks in China's most competitive coffee city. • A vintage bicycle for unique riding pleasure and blending with Locals. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We will meet at the Jade Buddha Temple, 170 An Yuan Lu, Jing An Qu, Shanghai. Find Your guide with holding a board of "TRIPPEST" waiting at the entrance of Jade Buddha Temple. 9:00 - 12:00 AMVisiting Shanghai by bike First stop will be at the Jing'an Sculputure Park which is a nice park to sit in the hustle and bustle of Shanghai. The neighborhood outside of the park has many other artistic aspects, like some good restaurants, boutiques, shopping, strolling and more. Then we will biking through the Former French Concession. Shanghai French Concession is a historical area in Shanghai, China that emerged during the French colonial period, lasting from 1849 to 1946. Covering an area of approximately 6.8 square kilometers, it was a jurisdiction granted to France, maintaining its own distinct identity. Take a leisurely stroll along its tree-lined streets and marvel at the elegant European architecture. Explore the charming boutiques, cafes, and restaurants that reflect the area's cosmopolitan past. Feel the unique charm of Shanghai French Concession and immerse yourself in its rich cultural heritage. Next, we will get to the Fazang Temple to discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city, known only to locals. The final stop will arrive at the Fuxing Park. Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. 12:00 – 13:00PMEnjoy delicious food and end the tour. After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this tour ends with tasting some great local food for lunch and biking back to the place where we started. Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Price Include: Vintage bicycle English-speaking guide Helmet Bottle of Water A exquisite artisanal coffee Local food tasting Entry/Admission - Fazang Temple Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up Gratuities FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We will meet at the Jade Buddha Temple, 170 An Yuan Lu, Jing An Qu, Shanghai. Find Your guide with holding a board of "TRIPPEST" waiting at the entrance of Jade Buddha Temple. 9:00 - 12:00 AMVisiting Shanghai by bike First stop will be at the Jing'an Sculputure Park which is a nice park to sit in the hustle and bustle of Shanghai. The neighborhood outside of the park has many other artistic aspects, like some good restaurants, boutiques, shopping, strolling and more. Then we will biking through the Former French Concession. Shanghai French Concession is a historical area in Shanghai, China that emerged during the French colonial period, lasting from 1849 to 1946. Covering an area of approximately 6.8 square kilometers, it was a jurisdiction granted to France, maintaining its own distinct identity. Take a leisurely stroll along its tree-lined streets and marvel at the elegant European architecture. Explore the charming boutiques, cafes, and restaurants that reflect the area's cosmopolitan past. Feel the unique charm of Shanghai French Concession and immerse yourself in its rich cultural heritage. Next, we will get to the Fazang Temple to discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city, known only to locals. The final stop will arrive at the Fuxing Park. Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. 12:00 – 13:00PMEnjoy delicious food and end the tour. After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this tour ends with tasting some great local food for lunch and biking back to the place where we started. Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the meeting time for the next day's tour with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We will meet at the Jade Buddha Temple, 170 An Yuan Lu, Jing An Qu, Shanghai. Find Your guide with holding a board of "TRIPPEST" waiting at the entrance of Jade Buddha Temple. 9:00 AMMeet The Guide We will meet at the Jade Buddha Temple, 170 An Yuan Lu, Jing An Qu, Shanghai. Find Your guide with holding a board of "TRIPPEST" waiting at the entrance of Jade Buddha Temple. We will meet at the Jade Buddha Temple, 170 An Yuan Lu, Jing An Qu, Shanghai. Find Your guide with holding a board of "TRIPPEST" waiting at the entrance of Jade Buddha Temple. 9:00 - 12:00 AMVisiting Shanghai by bike First stop will be at the Jing'an Sculputure Park which is a nice park to sit in the hustle and bustle of Shanghai. The neighborhood outside of the park has many other artistic aspects, like some good restaurants, boutiques, shopping, strolling and more. Then we will biking through the Former French Concession. Shanghai French Concession is a historical area in Shanghai, China that emerged during the French colonial period, lasting from 1849 to 1946. Covering an area of approximately 6.8 square kilometers, it was a jurisdiction granted to France, maintaining its own distinct identity. Take a leisurely stroll along its tree-lined streets and marvel at the elegant European architecture. Explore the charming boutiques, cafes, and restaurants that reflect the area's cosmopolitan past. Feel the unique charm of Shanghai French Concession and immerse yourself in its rich cultural heritage. Next, we will get to the Fazang Temple to discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city, known only to locals. The final stop will arrive at the Fuxing Park. Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. 9:00 - 12:00 AMVisiting Shanghai by bike First stop will be at the Jing'an Sculputure Park which is a nice park to sit in the hustle and bustle of Shanghai. The neighborhood outside of the park has many other artistic aspects, like some good restaurants, boutiques, shopping, strolling and more. Then we will biking through the Former French Concession. Shanghai French Concession is a historical area in Shanghai, China that emerged during the French colonial period, lasting from 1849 to 1946. Covering an area of approximately 6.8 square kilometers, it was a jurisdiction granted to France, maintaining its own distinct identity. Take a leisurely stroll along its tree-lined streets and marvel at the elegant European architecture. Explore the charming boutiques, cafes, and restaurants that reflect the area's cosmopolitan past. Feel the unique charm of Shanghai French Concession and immerse yourself in its rich cultural heritage. Next, we will get to the Fazang Temple to discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city, known only to locals. The final stop will arrive at the Fuxing Park. Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. First stop will be at the Jing'an Sculputure Park which is a nice park to sit in the hustle and bustle of Shanghai. The neighborhood outside of the park has many other artistic aspects, like some good restaurants, boutiques, shopping, strolling and more. Then we will biking through the Former French Concession. Shanghai French Concession is a historical area in Shanghai, China that emerged during the French colonial period, lasting from 1849 to 1946. Covering an area of approximately 6.8 square kilometers, it was a jurisdiction granted to France, maintaining its own distinct identity. Take a leisurely stroll along its tree-lined streets and marvel at the elegant European architecture. Explore the charming boutiques, cafes, and restaurants that reflect the area's cosmopolitan past. Feel the unique charm of Shanghai French Concession and immerse yourself in its rich cultural heritage. Next, we will get to the Fazang Temple to discover a hidden temple that is nestled in the bustling city, known only to locals. The final stop will arrive at the Fuxing Park. Immerse into Shanghai local's life in Fuxing Park, traditional antique wet market with birds and flowers. 12:00 – 13:00PMEnjoy delicious food and end the tour. After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this tour ends with tasting some great local food for lunch and biking back to the place where we started. Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook 12:00 – 13:00PMEnjoy delicious food and end the tour. After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this tour ends with tasting some great local food for lunch and biking back to the place where we started. Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook After visiting those highlights of the Former French Concession, this tour ends with tasting some great local food for lunch and biking back to the place where we started. Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Price Include: Vintage bicycle English-speaking guide Helmet Bottle of Water A exquisite artisanal coffee Local food tasting Entry/Admission - Fazang Temple Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up Gratuities Price Include: Vintage bicycle English-speaking guide Helmet Bottle of Water A exquisite artisanal coffee Local food tasting Entry/Admission - Fazang Temple Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up Gratuities Price Include: Vintage bicycle English-speaking guide Helmet Bottle of Water A exquisite artisanal coffee Local food tasting Entry/Admission - Fazang Temple Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up Gratuities • Vintage bicycle • English-speaking guide • Helmet • Bottle of Water • A exquisite artisanal coffee • Local food tasting • Entry/Admission - Fazang Temple • Hotel pick-up • Gratuities FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 99 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 99 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 99 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20