ID: 430c59a727bfceb4
Title: Chengdu Mount Qingcheng: Maps and Travel Tips
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chengdu/attraction/qingcheng-mountain.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-08-01T00:00:00
================================================================================

Mount Qingcheng is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and Taoist holy mountain near Chengdu. Known for its lush greenery and tranquil temples, it's also a filming site of Kung Fu Panda. If you enjoy peaceful nature, hiking, Taoist culture, or want a cool summer escape, Mount Qingcheng is a great pick. • Location: Dujiangyan, 1.5 h drive from Chengdu • Elevation: 1260m (front mountain), 2434m (back mountain) • Opening hours: 8:00-17:00 How to Choose From the Front or Back Mountain Mount Qingcheng is divided into two areas: the Front Mountain for cultural sites, and the Back Mountain for natural scenery. The Front and Back Mountains are separate areas, about 20+ minutes' drive apart. Each takes at least half a day to explore, so if you're doing a day trip from Chengdu, it's best to pick just one. • Front Mountain: most popular choice among tourists, well-developed, easy to climb, more sights and attractions to see (a mix of cultural and scenic views） • Back Mountain: wild nature vibe, more of a local weekend hangout. Some locals sip tea or play cards and mahjong in the shade. The tour facilities will not be so complete. If you're looking for a deeper, more complete Mount Qingcheng experience, consider visiting both ranges. In that case, staying overnight nearby is recommended. Features The Front Mountain The Back Mountain Highlights More Taoist temples and cultural sites Primitive forests, waterfalls, streams Best for first-timers history lovers Taoist culture fans nature lovers hikers adventure seekers Time-Needed 3-5 hrs 6-7hrs Effort Level Moderate (mostly gentle stone steps) More strenuous (steeper and rougher trails) Attractions Nature's Painting Temple Five Heavenly Caves Yuecheng Lake Laojun Pavilion Wulong Valley Longyin Plank Walkway Feiquan Valley Cuiying Lake • first-timers • history lovers • Taoist culture fans • nature lovers • hikers • adventure seekers • Nature's Painting Temple • Five Heavenly Caves • Yuecheng Lake • Laojun Pavilion • Wulong Valley • Longyin Plank Walkway • Feiquan Valley • Cuiying Lake Both the Front and Back Mountains have cable cars, but hiking is still required for most parts. There are more trails and limited signage, and it's easy to take a wrong turn or miss a key spot. If you're worried about getting lost or just want a smoother experience, consider going with a local guide. It can really help you make the most of your visit. Just contact us. How to Visit Mount Qingcheng Front Mountain: Feel Taoist Vibe Most visitors will choose to visit the front mountain, as it's easy to visit and packed with most cultural and historical sites of Mount Qingcheng. Highlights & Experiences of the Front Mountain • Quanzhen Temple: Features a vegetarian canteen where you can try Taoist vegetarian food. • Wudongtian & Tianshi Cave: Famous filming locations for Journey to the West. • Laojun Pavilion: The highest point. You can enjoy panoramic views over Mount Qingcheng. • Yuecheng Lake: A tranquil spot where you can enjoy a boat ride. Mount Qingcheng, Wudongtian Temple 2 Recommended Front Mountain Visiting Routes Classic Route: Hike up and take the Cable car down (or vice versa） This is a popular choice by most visitors, allowing you to visit all the main sights of the Front Mountain, taking about 4-5 hours. During weekends or holidays, the downhill cable car queues usually long around 4:30 PM. So if you want to avoid the queues, consider taking the cable car up and hiking down. Visit Chaoyang Cave along the hiking way Energy-effective Route: Entrance→hike to Yuecheng Lake→take cable car up→short hike to Laojun Pavilion→return the same way via cable car If you just want a light taste of Mount Qingcheng without too much walking, this route is perfect. It lets you enjoy a view of Mount Qingcheng and visit 1-2 temples without too much walking. How to Visit Mount Qingcheng Back Mountain: Hike into Nature The Back Mountain is a hiking paradise. You can take a taxi directly to the Wulong Valley entrance, which helps save some walking and the shuttle fee. Back Mountain Highlights • Wulong Valley: with more waterfalls, streams, and scenic stone bridges, it's great for you to take wide-angle photos. • Feiquan Valley: you can find many artsy teahouses and mahjong pavilions by the streams • Longyin Cliff Walkway: misty trails along the streams in the valley, best for photos • Wanfo Cave: you can witness over 2,000 spectacular Buddha statues scattered on the cliff • Cuiying Lake: also a tranquil jade-green lake perfect for boat rides. Refreshing streams in the back mountain of Mount Qingcheng 3 Recommended Back Mountain Visiting Routes 1. Short Loop (5km, 2hrs): Taian Ancient Town → Wulong Valley → Longyin Plank Walkway → Youyi Village → Jinli Cable Car down → Taian Ancient Town Perfect for beginners and photo lovers. The most scenic sections are Longyin Cliff Walkway and Wulong Valley with plenty of waterfalls and streams. With the cable car, this loop is also suitable for the elderly and children. Alternative: If you prefer no cable cars, hike down via Cuiying Lake and Feiquan Valley, which takes about 3-4 hours and 10km. Mount Qingcheng, hike across the plank walkway 2. Medium Loop (12km, 4-5 hours): Taian Ancient Town→Wulong Valley→Longyin Plank Walkway→ Baiyun Cable Car up→Cuiying Lake→Feiquan Valley→Taian Ancient Town If you're up for a bit more walking, this loop lets you see most of the scenic spots without being too intense. 3. Long Loop (17km, 6-8 hours): Taian Ancient Town→Wulong Valley→Longyin Plank Walkway→ Youyi Village→Baiyun Temple→Cuiying Lake→Feiquan Valley→Taian Ancient Town This full hike covers almost all key scenic spots and some cultural sites on the Back Mountain. It's recommended for experienced hikers or those with good physical fitness. Cable car at Mount Qingcheng Mount Qingcheng Itinerary Suggestion 1 Day Mount Qingcheng Itinerary A day trip to and from Chengdu to Mount Qingcheng is totally doable and not too rushed. You can set this day only for Mount Qingcheng, or pair it with other attractions in Dujiangyan: • Morning: Visit Dujiangyan Panda Base or Panda Valley • Afternoon: Mount Qingcheng and Back to Chengdu We suggest starting your day with the pandas, as they're most active in the morning. In the afternoon, head to Mount Qingcheng, which is especially nice in summer because it's cooler than the city. You will spend 2–3 hours exploring the Front Mountain highlights, including a cable car ride up and down. Explore Taoist temples on the front mountain If you've seen Kung Fu Panda, you'll recognize some of the natural scenery and architecture featured in the movie. Check out our 1-day Kung Fu Panda Tour for more details. If you want to enjoy some night views, we can take you to Dujiangyan Irrigation System to see the "Blue Tears". This beautiful light view starts around 8 pm, and after about an hour of night sightseeing, you can head back to Chengdu. If you want to enjoy some night views, we can take you to Dujiangyan Irrigation System to see the "Blue Tears". This beautiful light view starts around 8 pm, and after about an hour of night sightseeing, you can head back to Chengdu. 2-Day Mount Qingcheng Itinerary If you'd like a deeper exploration of Mount Qingcheng, consider visiting both ranges: • Day 1: Chengdu → Visit the Front Mountain • Day 2: Explore the Back Mountain → Return to Chengdu Alternatively, combine other highlights of Dujiangyan: • Day 1: Dujiangyan Panda Base or Panda Valley + Dujiangyan Irrigation System + Zhongshuge Bookstore (Hogwarts-like bookstore) + Yangtianwo Plaza (Panda selfie statue) • Day 2: Mount Qingcheng, then return to Chengdu Hiking trail at the front mountain of Mount Qingcheng How to Get to Mount Qingcheng from Chengdu A private car is the most convenient option, about 1.5hrs from Chengdu. You'll be picked up directly from your hotel and dropped off at the entrance of Mount Qingcheng. You can also take a direct tourist bus from Chunxi Road (near the IFS climbing panda). It also takes 1.5hrs, but the departure times are quite fixed, usually at 7:45, 9:00, and 10 AM. For a cost-effective and frequent option, you can take the high-speed train or metro to the Qingchengshan Station, and then transfer by a shuttle bus to the front or back mountain. Best Time to Visit Mount Qingcheng Spring and autumn are the best times if you look for comfortable weather, pleasant scenery, and fewer visitors. Spring (Mar-May): Mountain Flowers Blossom Spring is also lush in Mount Qingcheng, with some wildflowers and tree blossoms. The temperature is around 7-25°C (45-77°F), so a light jacket is great for early spring, and long thin sleeves are just right by late spring. Summer (Jun-Aug): Avoid Summer heat, but also the Rainy Season With temperatures around 18-32°C (64-90°F), it's a great place to escape the summer heat. The forest is dense and shady, streams and waterfalls are full, and hiking feels refreshingly cool. You can even dip your feet in the water. But you're also more likely to encounter changeable weather and possible flash floods, so avoid visiting on rainy days. It's also the peak season, so expect more visitors and cable car lines. Autumn (Sep-Nov): Capture Golden Autumn Leaves A lovely time to enjoy colourful foliage, especially golden ginkgo and red cypress trees in November. The weather is pleasantly cool and dry, with temperatures from 5-30°C (41-86°F). You can still wear short sleeves in early autumn, and a light jacket is enough in late autumn. Winter (Dec-Feb): More Likely to See Snowy Views Mount Qingcheng in winter can get cold, around -4-17°C (25-63°F). Although snow is possible, the icy trails make hiking risky. If you're hoping to see snow around Chengdu, consider Xiling Snow Mountain. It offers better snowy views, skiing, and fun winter activities, and you don't need to hike too much to visit it. Where to Stay in Mount Qingcheng? • Stay in Six Senses Hotels Resorts Spas If you prefer a luxury 5-star resort to relax, Qingcheng Six Senses located at the foot of the Front Mountain, is a top choice. You can also enjoy their own exclusive Mount Qingcheng hiking routes and tai chi lessons. • Stay in the boutique inns on Back Mountain If you're looking to enjoy mountain streams and outdoor fun, the Back Mountain has plenty of boutique inns and guesthouses right by the creeks. Some even come with private hot springs. Travel Chengdu with Us • 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour • 6-Day Chengdu and Dujiangyan Tour • More Chengdu Tours