ID: 61c98ba3aa3b5314
Title: 2.5-hour Chengdu Evening Foodie Tour By Tuktuk
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/chengdu/evening-food-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Chengdu is capital of Sichuan which is called "food paradise". Hop on the Tuktuk, led by a local experience foodie tour guide, go through alleys & streets to look for the "hidden" but "well know" places (by locals) in the alley & neighborhood, taste the most popular mouth-watering delicious dishes and snacks in this evening. It's not only food, but more behind stories about the local's childhood, lives and customs in this city. Visiting family-owned restaurants and even the street snack vendors are an excellent way to find out the secret of Chengdu. Be among the locals, get a better understanding of why Chengdu is so-called "the Land of Abundance" (天府之国). Tour Highlights Taking Tuk-tuk transportation to go around the local street which only local knows. Local experienced English-speaking foodie guide will lead you. You will get to some family style restaurants and taste 12+ types of local snacks and delicacies. Knowing lifestyle and culture of Chengdu and some interesting stories behind the snacks. The Design of the Activity Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Chengdu, know the city well and totally a big foodie. Location: At the city center to find the hidden restaurants which only locals know. Trippest Chengdu Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date The guide will call your hotel to contact you or leaving a messege to confirm the meeting time and location the night before your tour date. 6:00 PM - 6:10 AMMeet the guide and get in a Tuktuk Our tour will begin at 6:00PM, the guide will be waiting you at the meeting point, you need to arrive at the meeting location on time. Then the guide will lead you to get in a Tuktuk and go to the first stop for food. 4 people can ride in one Tuk-tuk Tuk-Tuk Tranportation Note: 1. This tour needs at least 2 people to start, if you are only one person, you can send us an inquiry of the date you want to us. 2. If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:10 PM – 8:00 PMGo through the hidden alley to find tasty food You will take tuk-tuk going through the streets, and you will go to the most famous and delicious food vendors. For the local people, they are very clear that there are a lot of delicious food restaurants hidden inside some apartments where you might not know from the Internet. Following the local foodie guide and get to know about those lovely snacks! Taking photos of the snacks on the street Tang You Guo Zi, which is like a fried sweet sticky rice roll Eating at a family restaurant Explore pedestrian alleyway in our tour, and have an opportunity to stop at 4-5 different favorite places of local people. You will try 10-12 different tasty snacks, like Chengdu Pancakes, Mapo Tofu, Dandan Noodles, Dumplings, etc. Dan Dan Noddles, Zhong's Dumplings and Laoma Wonton" Chengdu Pancakes" The girl shows the Bobo's Chicken" Happy foodie tour with all guys All shops we went have a history of more 20 years even 100 years business. You will not only experience the characteristic Sichuan food, but also learn connections among the food restaurants, the development of the local buildings and local people. Sharing the feelings and knowledge together when in food tour" All food contain chili, if you can't eat it, please do tell the guide in advance" 8:00 PM - 8:30 PMWalk along the road and enjoy the night view After finishing trying all the delicious food, we will walk along the road and you will be carried to the local famous bar street at Jiuyan Bridge, there will be a nice place to have a drink with your friends if you like. Night view in Jiuyan Bridge" Price Include: Tuk-tuk transport fee. Food fee. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Beer and soft drinks at the bar street. FAQs About This Tour How to get the detail address of the meeting poin? The meeting point is at Hongxing Bridge, Hong Xing Qiao, Jintang Xian, Chengdu Shi, Sichuan Sheng, China. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the location. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. Check Availability For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 78 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Chengdu is capital of Sichuan which is called "food paradise". Hop on the Tuktuk, led by a local experience foodie tour guide, go through alleys & streets to look for the "hidden" but "well know" places (by locals) in the alley & neighborhood, taste the most popular mouth-watering delicious dishes and snacks in this evening. It's not only food, but more behind stories about the local's childhood, lives and customs in this city. Visiting family-owned restaurants and even the street snack vendors are an excellent way to find out the secret of Chengdu. Be among the locals, get a better understanding of why Chengdu is so-called "the Land of Abundance" (天府之国). Chengdu is capital of Sichuan which is called "food paradise". Hop on the Tuktuk, led by a local experience foodie tour guide, go through alleys & streets to look for the "hidden" but "well know" places (by locals) in the alley & neighborhood, taste the most popular mouth-watering delicious dishes and snacks in this evening. It's not only food, but more behind stories about the local's childhood, lives and customs in this city. Visiting family-owned restaurants and even the street snack vendors are an excellent way to find out the secret of Chengdu. Be among the locals, get a better understanding of why Chengdu is so-called "the Land of Abundance" (天府之国). Tour Highlights Taking Tuk-tuk transportation to go around the local street which only local knows. Local experienced English-speaking foodie guide will lead you. You will get to some family style restaurants and taste 12+ types of local snacks and delicacies. Knowing lifestyle and culture of Chengdu and some interesting stories behind the snacks. • Taking Tuk-tuk transportation to go around the local street which only local knows. • Local experienced English-speaking foodie guide will lead you. • You will get to some family style restaurants and taste 12+ types of local snacks and delicacies. • Knowing lifestyle and culture of Chengdu and some interesting stories behind the snacks. The Design of the Activity Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Chengdu, know the city well and totally a big foodie. Location: At the city center to find the hidden restaurants which only locals know. Trippest Chengdu Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. The Design of the Activity • Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Chengdu, know the city well and totally a big foodie. • Location: At the city center to find the hidden restaurants which only locals know. • Trippest Chengdu Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice • Professional product team analysis on every part of the activity to ensure a funny, meaningful and enjoyable expeprience for you. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date The guide will call your hotel to contact you or leaving a messege to confirm the meeting time and location the night before your tour date. 6:00 PM - 6:10 AMMeet the guide and get in a Tuktuk Our tour will begin at 6:00PM, the guide will be waiting you at the meeting point, you need to arrive at the meeting location on time. Then the guide will lead you to get in a Tuktuk and go to the first stop for food. 4 people can ride in one Tuk-tuk Tuk-Tuk Tranportation Note: 1. This tour needs at least 2 people to start, if you are only one person, you can send us an inquiry of the date you want to us. 2. If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:10 PM – 8:00 PMGo through the hidden alley to find tasty food You will take tuk-tuk going through the streets, and you will go to the most famous and delicious food vendors. For the local people, they are very clear that there are a lot of delicious food restaurants hidden inside some apartments where you might not know from the Internet. Following the local foodie guide and get to know about those lovely snacks! Taking photos of the snacks on the street Tang You Guo Zi, which is like a fried sweet sticky rice roll Eating at a family restaurant Explore pedestrian alleyway in our tour, and have an opportunity to stop at 4-5 different favorite places of local people. You will try 10-12 different tasty snacks, like Chengdu Pancakes, Mapo Tofu, Dandan Noodles, Dumplings, etc. Dan Dan Noddles, Zhong's Dumplings and Laoma Wonton" Chengdu Pancakes" The girl shows the Bobo's Chicken" Happy foodie tour with all guys All shops we went have a history of more 20 years even 100 years business. You will not only experience the characteristic Sichuan food, but also learn connections among the food restaurants, the development of the local buildings and local people. Sharing the feelings and knowledge together when in food tour" All food contain chili, if you can't eat it, please do tell the guide in advance" 8:00 PM - 8:30 PMWalk along the road and enjoy the night view After finishing trying all the delicious food, we will walk along the road and you will be carried to the local famous bar street at Jiuyan Bridge, there will be a nice place to have a drink with your friends if you like. Night view in Jiuyan Bridge" Close All The day before your tour date The guide will call your hotel to contact you or leaving a messege to confirm the meeting time and location the night before your tour date. 6:00 PM - 6:10 AMMeet the guide and get in a Tuktuk Our tour will begin at 6:00PM, the guide will be waiting you at the meeting point, you need to arrive at the meeting location on time. Then the guide will lead you to get in a Tuktuk and go to the first stop for food. 4 people can ride in one Tuk-tuk Tuk-Tuk Tranportation Note: 1. This tour needs at least 2 people to start, if you are only one person, you can send us an inquiry of the date you want to us. 2. If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:10 PM – 8:00 PMGo through the hidden alley to find tasty food You will take tuk-tuk going through the streets, and you will go to the most famous and delicious food vendors. For the local people, they are very clear that there are a lot of delicious food restaurants hidden inside some apartments where you might not know from the Internet. Following the local foodie guide and get to know about those lovely snacks! Taking photos of the snacks on the street Tang You Guo Zi, which is like a fried sweet sticky rice roll Eating at a family restaurant Explore pedestrian alleyway in our tour, and have an opportunity to stop at 4-5 different favorite places of local people. You will try 10-12 different tasty snacks, like Chengdu Pancakes, Mapo Tofu, Dandan Noodles, Dumplings, etc. Dan Dan Noddles, Zhong's Dumplings and Laoma Wonton" Chengdu Pancakes" The girl shows the Bobo's Chicken" Happy foodie tour with all guys All shops we went have a history of more 20 years even 100 years business. You will not only experience the characteristic Sichuan food, but also learn connections among the food restaurants, the development of the local buildings and local people. Sharing the feelings and knowledge together when in food tour" All food contain chili, if you can't eat it, please do tell the guide in advance" 8:00 PM - 8:30 PMWalk along the road and enjoy the night view After finishing trying all the delicious food, we will walk along the road and you will be carried to the local famous bar street at Jiuyan Bridge, there will be a nice place to have a drink with your friends if you like. Night view in Jiuyan Bridge" The day before your tour date The guide will call your hotel to contact you or leaving a messege to confirm the meeting time and location the night before your tour date. The day before your tour date The guide will call your hotel to contact you or leaving a messege to confirm the meeting time and location the night before your tour date. The guide will call your hotel to contact you or leaving a messege to confirm the meeting time and location the night before your tour date. 6:00 PM - 6:10 AMMeet the guide and get in a Tuktuk Our tour will begin at 6:00PM, the guide will be waiting you at the meeting point, you need to arrive at the meeting location on time. Then the guide will lead you to get in a Tuktuk and go to the first stop for food. 4 people can ride in one Tuk-tuk Tuk-Tuk Tranportation Note: 1. This tour needs at least 2 people to start, if you are only one person, you can send us an inquiry of the date you want to us. 2. If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:00 PM - 6:10 AMMeet the guide and get in a Tuktuk Our tour will begin at 6:00PM, the guide will be waiting you at the meeting point, you need to arrive at the meeting location on time. Then the guide will lead you to get in a Tuktuk and go to the first stop for food. 4 people can ride in one Tuk-tuk Tuk-Tuk Tranportation Note: 1. This tour needs at least 2 people to start, if you are only one person, you can send us an inquiry of the date you want to us. 2. If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. Good to Know: Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. Our tour will begin at 6:00PM, the guide will be waiting you at the meeting point, you need to arrive at the meeting location on time. Then the guide will lead you to get in a Tuktuk and go to the first stop for food. 4 people can ride in one Tuk-tuk Tuk-Tuk Tranportation Note: 1. This tour needs at least 2 people to start, if you are only one person, you can send us an inquiry of the date you want to us. 2. If you have any food preference, like vegetarian, please noted us at the time of booking. • Wechat is widely used in China, if you have one please tell your ID to us in advance so that we can share the detail location with you directly and you can go to the point easily. 6:10 PM – 8:00 PMGo through the hidden alley to find tasty food You will take tuk-tuk going through the streets, and you will go to the most famous and delicious food vendors. For the local people, they are very clear that there are a lot of delicious food restaurants hidden inside some apartments where you might not know from the Internet. Following the local foodie guide and get to know about those lovely snacks! Taking photos of the snacks on the street Tang You Guo Zi, which is like a fried sweet sticky rice roll Eating at a family restaurant Explore pedestrian alleyway in our tour, and have an opportunity to stop at 4-5 different favorite places of local people. You will try 10-12 different tasty snacks, like Chengdu Pancakes, Mapo Tofu, Dandan Noodles, Dumplings, etc. Dan Dan Noddles, Zhong's Dumplings and Laoma Wonton" Chengdu Pancakes" The girl shows the Bobo's Chicken" Happy foodie tour with all guys All shops we went have a history of more 20 years even 100 years business. You will not only experience the characteristic Sichuan food, but also learn connections among the food restaurants, the development of the local buildings and local people. Sharing the feelings and knowledge together when in food tour" All food contain chili, if you can't eat it, please do tell the guide in advance" 6:10 PM – 8:00 PMGo through the hidden alley to find tasty food You will take tuk-tuk going through the streets, and you will go to the most famous and delicious food vendors. For the local people, they are very clear that there are a lot of delicious food restaurants hidden inside some apartments where you might not know from the Internet. Following the local foodie guide and get to know about those lovely snacks! Taking photos of the snacks on the street Tang You Guo Zi, which is like a fried sweet sticky rice roll Eating at a family restaurant Explore pedestrian alleyway in our tour, and have an opportunity to stop at 4-5 different favorite places of local people. You will try 10-12 different tasty snacks, like Chengdu Pancakes, Mapo Tofu, Dandan Noodles, Dumplings, etc. Dan Dan Noddles, Zhong's Dumplings and Laoma Wonton" Chengdu Pancakes" The girl shows the Bobo's Chicken" Happy foodie tour with all guys All shops we went have a history of more 20 years even 100 years business. You will not only experience the characteristic Sichuan food, but also learn connections among the food restaurants, the development of the local buildings and local people. Sharing the feelings and knowledge together when in food tour" All food contain chili, if you can't eat it, please do tell the guide in advance" You will take tuk-tuk going through the streets, and you will go to the most famous and delicious food vendors. For the local people, they are very clear that there are a lot of delicious food restaurants hidden inside some apartments where you might not know from the Internet. Following the local foodie guide and get to know about those lovely snacks! Taking photos of the snacks on the street Tang You Guo Zi, which is like a fried sweet sticky rice roll Eating at a family restaurant Explore pedestrian alleyway in our tour, and have an opportunity to stop at 4-5 different favorite places of local people. You will try 10-12 different tasty snacks, like Chengdu Pancakes, Mapo Tofu, Dandan Noodles, Dumplings, etc. Dan Dan Noddles, Zhong's Dumplings and Laoma Wonton" The girl shows the Bobo's Chicken" Happy foodie tour with all guys All shops we went have a history of more 20 years even 100 years business. You will not only experience the characteristic Sichuan food, but also learn connections among the food restaurants, the development of the local buildings and local people. Sharing the feelings and knowledge together when in food tour" All food contain chili, if you can't eat it, please do tell the guide in advance" 8:00 PM - 8:30 PMWalk along the road and enjoy the night view After finishing trying all the delicious food, we will walk along the road and you will be carried to the local famous bar street at Jiuyan Bridge, there will be a nice place to have a drink with your friends if you like. Night view in Jiuyan Bridge" 8:00 PM - 8:30 PMWalk along the road and enjoy the night view After finishing trying all the delicious food, we will walk along the road and you will be carried to the local famous bar street at Jiuyan Bridge, there will be a nice place to have a drink with your friends if you like. Night view in Jiuyan Bridge" After finishing trying all the delicious food, we will walk along the road and you will be carried to the local famous bar street at Jiuyan Bridge, there will be a nice place to have a drink with your friends if you like. Night view in Jiuyan Bridge" Price Include: Tuk-tuk transport fee. Food fee. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Beer and soft drinks at the bar street. Price Include: Tuk-tuk transport fee. Food fee. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Beer and soft drinks at the bar street. Price Include: Tuk-tuk transport fee. Food fee. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Personal expenses. Beer and soft drinks at the bar street. • Tuk-tuk transport fee. • Food fee. • Bottled water. • Hotel pick-up and drop-off. • Personal expenses. • Beer and soft drinks at the bar street. FAQs About This Tour How to get the detail address of the meeting poin? The meeting point is at Hongxing Bridge, Hong Xing Qiao, Jintang Xian, Chengdu Shi, Sichuan Sheng, China. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the location. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. How to get the detail address of the meeting poin? The meeting point is at Hongxing Bridge, Hong Xing Qiao, Jintang Xian, Chengdu Shi, Sichuan Sheng, China. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the location. How to get the detail address of the meeting poin? The meeting point is at Hongxing Bridge, Hong Xing Qiao, Jintang Xian, Chengdu Shi, Sichuan Sheng, China. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the location. The meeting point is at Hongxing Bridge, Hong Xing Qiao, Jintang Xian, Chengdu Shi, Sichuan Sheng, China. After completing the booking, you will receive a confirmation letter via email with detail address of the location. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 78 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 78 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 78 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20