ID: 40862285ff6c6821
Title: 6 Fun and Not Touristy Things to Do in Chengdu
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chengdu/fun-not-touristy-things-to-do.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-05-27T00:00:00
================================================================================

I was born and educated in Chengdu, and have spent many years working here as a tour guide. I deeply love this city and would like to introduce you to some of its unique attractions. The places I will mention include both well-known spots of irreplaceable status, and niche locations frequented more often by locals. I hope you will enjoy them. Fifi Xie 7 Years as a Local Guide in Chengdu Hello I'm Fifi, a local girl. My Chinese name, "Fei Fei飞飞," was given by my grandfather, hoping I could fly out of Chengdu and the mountains. However, my mom changed it to the more feminine "Fei Fei菲菲." So, as "Fifi," who is somewhat "stuck" in Chengdu, I've been introducing this leisurely and beautiful city to visitors from all over the world since 2018. From a poor small town to a prosperous metropolis, I've witnessed the vitality of this city and been gently sheltered by it. I hope to share this strength and beauty with every guest who comes here. 7 Years as a Local Guide in Chengdu Hello I'm Fifi, a local girl. My Chinese name, "Fei Fei飞飞," was given by my grandfather, hoping I could fly out of Chengdu and the mountains. However, my mom changed it to the more feminine "Fei Fei菲菲." So, as "Fifi," who is somewhat "stuck" in Chengdu, I've been introducing this leisurely and beautiful city to visitors from all over the world since 2018. From a poor small town to a prosperous metropolis, I've witnessed the vitality of this city and been gently sheltered by it. I hope to share this strength and beauty with every guest who comes here. 1. Visit Pandas in a Less Crowded Area Coming to Chengdu, the must-see attraction is the pandas. However, the panda base has always been incredibly popular. Below, I'll teach you how to avoid crowds and see the most lively and numerous pandas. If you come to Chengdu in the summer and due to time constraints, you can only visit the Chengdu Panda Base, which is closer to the city center. I recommend departing before 7:30 in the morning and entering from the west gate of the Chengdu Panda Base. The west gate leads to the new area, where the interior is entirely made of glass. This ensures that even if the temperature is extremely hot, you can still see pandas enjoying their bamboo in air-conditioned comfort inside. However, if you visit in the summer and have ample time, I highly recommend the Dujiangyan Panda Base. The temperature in Dujiangyan is 3-5 degrees lower than in Chengdu, which makes the pandas more active during the summer. Additionally, it attracts fewer tourists than the Chengdu Panda Base. 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Emei Tour Experience the Classic and Vibrant Chengdu 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Emei Tour Experience the Classic and Vibrant Chengdu 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Emei Tour Experience the Classic and Vibrant Chengdu 2. Enjoy a Leisurely Walk in Liujiang Ancient Town If you wish to experience a less commercialized ancient town, Liujiang Ancient Town is a great choice. This picturesque riverside town is uniquely charming. Along the river, old banyan trees and stilt houses are scattered, creating a harmonious scene. As you cross the covered bridge, you'll see small boats swaying in the river, red lanterns hanging over the bluestone slabs everywhere, and art students sketching the beautiful scenery on their easels. If you visit in the summer, you can also wade in the water and have water fights, making it a perfect destination for children. 3. Experience the Local Flavor at Pengzhen Teahouse Boil tea in an old teapot Pengzhen Guanyin Pavilion Old Teahouse is a distinctive and historic establishment. The building, in traditional Western Sichuan residential architectural style, was originally a Guanyin temple, which was transformed into the current teahouse after the temple was closed and renovated. If you want to experience authentic old Chengdu, come early for tea. The locals, who gather for chat and idle over tea, are most numerous in the morning. A bowl of tea for ten yuan, paired with a serving of sunflower seeds and peanuts, is enough to "waste" a morning, but this is the most authentic way of life. A gentle reminder, though, this experience includes inhaling plenty of secondhand smoke. If you love photography, this place is a paradise. When the morning sun pierces through the pentagram-embedded glass on the eaves and casts light on the tea drinkers at each table, you can perfectly capture the local flavor with your lens. The elderly, playing cards, chatting, singing long-tuned folk songs, are not afraid of the camera or worried about being disturbed, as their inner world is so serene and stable. Moreover, the streets and courtyards surrounding the teahouse are also very distinctive. Many residents still live in these small alleys. You can see handmade preserved eggs, noodle workshops, handmade soy sauce workshops, and other aspects of Chengdu life that have existed for about two thousand years. 4. Have a City Walk in Chengdu The Nightview of Chengdu City City walks have become increasingly popular in recent years. They offer a unique way to explore the heart and soul of a city, uncover hidden gems, and experience local life. This is something you can't do from a car window or a tour bus. Chengdu is renowned for its leisurely pace of life, making it ideal for ambling through the city's streets and alleys, savoring life. During your stroll, you can stop at any time to taste authentic Sichuan cuisine and snacks. You can click on Chengdu City Walks to learn about some top hidden routes. 5. Shop on Chunxi Road The Climbing Panda in Chunxi Road If you enjoy shopping, the area around Chunxi Road is a great choice. Chunxi Road is a century-old shopping street and a popular gathering place for local youths. You can start at the International Finance Square (IFS), home to the famous climbing panda. If you're not satisfied with just seeing the panda's backside, you can go inside the IFS building and take the elevator directly to the 7th floor for a landmark photo with the panda's head. The front of the climbing panda On both sides of the IFS are shopping areas. On one side is the affordable Chunxi Road, where you can find local brand clothing, a variety of mid-range brands, specialty shops, and snack food. On the other side is the high-end luxury shopping center, Taikoo Li. The architecture of Taikoo Li is very distinctive, a perfect fusion of classic and modern. It is built based on the Chinese architectural features of Daci Temple, a thousand-year-old temple. So, if you visit Taikoo Li, don't miss this temple in the bustling center. To the right of the temple, there's an open-air tea terrace. Enjoy a bowl of covered-bowl tea there, experiencing the perfect balance between the fast pace of modern life and the leisurely lifestyle of Chengdu. See our recommended 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour 6. Visit Wangjiang Park to Experience the Daily Life of Chengdu's Elderly Wangjiang Park, also known as Bamboo Park because of its many varieties of bamboo, is not particularly famous and sees few tourists, but it is popular among locals. I highly recommend visiting this park between 7:30 and 10:00 in the morning to experience the healthy lifestyle of the local elderly. Every corner is filled with energetic retirees exercising. They practice Tai Chi, sword dancing, dancing, yoga, and calisthenics. If you're willing, you can absolutely join them. Because the movements are usually slow, you can stand behind them and follow along. They will definitely welcome your participation. After experiencing the dancing, you can go to Wangjiang Pavilion. From the second floor, you can overlook the rivers of Chengdu. This was an important transportation hub in ancient times, where people would bid farewell to their loved ones departing by boat. Wangjiang Pavilion by the river If you like, you can sit down in the teahouse in Wangjiang Park, by the riverside, have a cup of tea, and watch locals play mahjong and chat about everyday life. From February to March, it's the blooming season for cherry blossoms, begonias, and peach blossoms. The riverbank of Wangjiang Park is lined with various flowering trees. Having tea here should be a uniquely beautiful experience. Discover the Hidden Gems of Chengdu with China Highlights Embark on an unforgettable journey with China Highlights as we take you beyond the typical tourist experience to discover the hidden gems. Our expertly curated Chengdu tours, providing you with an immersive experience that truly represents the Chengdu way of life. You're not just visiting Chengdu, you're experiencing the city as locals do. Contact us to guide you through the fascinating rhythm of life in Chengdu.