ID: 29d62000d1080ca2
Title: Shaxi Ancient Town: What to See and How to Get, Map
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/dali/attraction/shaxi-town.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Shaxi Old Town was an important trading hub on the Yunnan–Tibet Tea Horse Road. It was included in the World Monuments Fund's protection list of 101 endangered sites as early as 2001. Pompeii in Italy and the Great Wall of China are also on the list. This thousand-year-old medieval town, which still retains its quaint appearance, seems to have been forgotten by time. However, it regained popularity after the airing of Meet Yourself, drawing many visitors eager to experience the slow pace of life depicted in the show. • Location: Jianchuan County, Dali, Yunnan, China • Main attractions: Old Theater Stage, Yujin Bridge, Xingjiao Temple, a weekly Friday morning market • Time needed: half a day to 2 days • Open: all day (some attractions open from 9am to 5pm) • Best time to visit: all year round • What to See in Shaxi • How to Get to Shaxi • Where to Stay in Shaxi • Shaxi and Tea Horse Road • Plan a Yunnan Trip with Shaxi • Best Times to Visit Shaxi Shaxi Ancient Town Map What to See in Shaxi Ancient Town Shaxi is an ancient town integrating and preserving medieval business and Buddhist culture, where you could soak up the authentic old town vibe and peaceful ambiance. Also, find most of the filming locations for the drama Meet Yourself and capture keepsake photos there. As in Lijiang Old Town and Shuhe Ancient Town, Shaxi Ancient Town also has its own Square Street at its heart, with Chinese scholar trees that are two centuries old standing in its center. This street is not just a historical relic; it's a fully-functioning millennium-old bazaar. It features a temple, an old theater stage, shops, a caravansary, a wide street surfaced with red sandstone slabs, medieval alleyways, and old village gates. The west-facing medieval stage on its east side and the east-facing Xingjiao Temple on its west side echo each other and divide Square Street equally into southern and northern halves. Traditional Bai ethnic performances featured in Meet Yourself were held in the square between these two iconic landmarks. The Old Theater Stage is a three-story Kuixing (god of examination in Daoism) pavilion with a stage in front, which was built in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1912) and later became the most distinctive building on Square Street. As it directly faces Xingjiao Temple, there is a saying passed down from the older generations: "The plays are sung for immortals in Xingjiao Temple." This well-preserved Buddhist temple was built in the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644). As the epitome of various cultures, it offers a glimpse into Buddhism, Bai culture, and diverse commercial traditions of this area. Most of the time, the temple is peaceful and quiet, but it is bustling during festivals. Sometimes, you may encounter some villagers playing and singing melodious tunes with traditional instruments. The Eastern Gate on Sideng Street The third major medieval alleyway in Shaxi, located off Square Street, is called Sideng Street (it is known as 'the Street Beside Xingjiao Temple' in the Bai language). It leads to the east gate of Shaxi Old Town. As there is no large-scale commercial development yet, the only surviving medieval bazaar, once a bustling caravan stopover station on the Tea Horse Road, remains the same as was before on Sideng Street. Weekly Friday Morning Market Every Friday, nearby traditionally dressed residents go to sell a wide range of local items at the bazaar, such as freshly-made goat cheese, traditional Chinese medicine, dried tofu, and wild mushrooms. Go to the market with a bamboo basket to buy some local products you like. Ouyang Courtyard House The five-star caravan inn on Tea Horse Road is situated on the west of Sideng Street, showcasing exquisite techniques of traditional Bai ethnic architecture. It may still enable you to imagine the bustling caravans and traders of the past. The meandering Heihui River runs by the east side of Shaxi Ancient Town from north to south. There is a crescent-shaped early-modern bridge, Yujin ('Jade Ford') Bridge, across the river, which is set off by distant towering green mountains. This old bridge was the only way for Bai people living in Shaxi Ancient Town to go to work in the fields and to do business on the other side of the river. The stone slabs it is paved with have become shiny with a green hue, but are also potholed due to the pressure and footfall of carriages, horses, and people. It is a witness to and artifact of Shaxi's long history, having greeted and seen countless generations of people and even animals in Shaxi. When you stand on the bridge, you also share a leisurely time with wandering horses, goats, and ducks. Walking across Yujin Bridge, you would be greeted by vast fields stretching out before you. Every spring, these fields come alive with the vibrant yellow of blooming rape flowers. It's a pleasant time to immerse yourself in the beauty of rape flower fields as you wander along the paths. Rape Flower Fields in Spring 4. Other Filming Locations of Meet Yourself If you are a fan of Meet Yourself, we would like to recommend some more popular filming locations for you. This bookstore used to be a factory for processing crops, and it retains Bai ethnic characteristics. It requires a 20-minute walk from Square Street, and you could not only capture similar photos to scenes depicted in the drama but also enjoy a panoramic view of the old town. The courtyard featured in Meet Yourself is actually part of a café located in Fengyang Yi, 20 minutes from Dali. This peaceful café is a pleasant place to enjoy the same leisurely lifestyle depicted in the drama, but taking photos requires an extra fee of CN￥200 per person. Shaxi Ancient Town and the Tea Horse Road Ancient Tea Horse Road Shaxi Ancient Town played an active role in economic and cultural exchanges on the Yunnan–Tibet Tea Horse Road between Dali and Lijiang from the Tang Dynasty era (618–907) to the Qing Dynasty era (1644–1912). As the only surviving old town on the Tea Horse Road, Shaxi holds a unique place in history. Nowadays, you could still trace the history of the Tea Horse Road there. Beyond viewing its historical architecture, delve deeper into its past at Masiye Caravan Museum, where you could discover more about caravan life and view more trade caravan paraphernalia. For active hikers, we can also arrange a hiking tour accompanied by a horse along a section of the ancient Tea Horse Road. This 3½-hour hiking tour, led by a local caravan, offers not only tranquil rural scenery but also captivating stories and history shared by the caravanners. Yujin Bridge, a key connection to Dali, was the vital crossing point for those entering or leaving Shaxi on the Tea Horse Road. For families with kids, a short horse-riding experience along the river could be interesting. The experienced horse owner will ensure the safety of your kids. Contact us if you are interested in exploring other sites on the Ancient Tea Horse Road. Alternatively, see our Yunnan tours to get some more inspiration. • Recommended tour: 4-Day Dali and Tea Horse Road Experience Tour 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments How to Get to Shaxi Ancient Town Shaxi Ancient Town is 128 kilometers (80 miles) from Dali and 107 kilometers (66 miles) from Lijiang. Typically, visitors could take a direct shuttle bus or book private transport to Shaxi Ancient Town. A private car is recommended as it is more flexible, convenient, and comfortable. • By private car/taxi: 2 hours' drive • By shuttle bus: 3 hours' drive, starting from Dali Bus Station • By private car/taxi: 2 hours' drive • By shuttle bus: 2 hours' drive, starting from Lijiang Gaokuai Passenger Station Plan a Dali and Lijiang Trip with Shaxi Shaxi Ancient Town is located between Dali and Lijiang, making it a great place to stop on the way. Most visitors see these two destinations before and after visiting Shaxi. Here is a typical itinerary for reference. • Days 1–2: Dali (arrival, Er Lake, Dali Old Town, and Xizhou) • Day 3: Shaxi Ancient Town • Days 4–5: Lijiang (Lijiang Old Town and Jade Dragon Snow Mountain) 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life 8-Day "Meet Yourself" Yunnan TourBring the Drama to Life Where to Stay in Shaxi Ancient Town If you want to spend more time immersing yourself in Shaxi's simple life and quiet ambiance, it is better to stay overnight in the old town. Here are some suggestions for hotels based on our on-site inspections. • Landscape Hotel Shaxi (4-star) is nestled in the heart of Shaxi Ancient Town with quiet rooms, quaint architectural beauty, and a more authentic atmosphere. • Landscape Garden Hotel (4-star) is newer with more modern facilities, but it retains some antique designs. • Sunyata Shaxi Hotel (5-star) has a traditional Bai-style design, a pretty garden, and a peaceful vibe. Note: The staff in hotels in Shaxi Ancient Town may not speak English, and the choice of breakfast is limited. See Where to Stay in Dali — 7 Best Boutique Hotels for alternatives and more information. Best Times to Visit Shaxi Ancient Town Due to its less-convenient location, Shaxi tends to be less-crowded and quieter. Each season in Shaxi showcases its own unique and beautiful scenery, making Shaxi ideal to visit all year round. • Spring (March to May): This is a gorgeous and warm season, perfect for viewing flowers. Colorful blooms bring the old town to life with vibrant tones, with vast rape flower fields, pink crab apples, cherry blossoms, and wisteria. • Summer (June to August): It's the rainy but also verdant season, trees are lush and their shade offers a cool retreat on rare sunny days. Also, enjoy the simple pleasures of wading in the river or possibly gazing at the starry sky. • Autumn (September to November): Shaxi is a perfect place for capturing fall colors. Its scenery resembles Vincent van Gogh's autumn paintings, with reeds along the riverside, ginkgo trees, and leaves blending delicate shades of yellow, red, and green. • Winter (December to February): This season brings more clear days. The scenery does not appear bleak, rather a peaceful sight, with some withered trees, grass, and cute persimmons hanging on the twigs. Winter is also ideal for admiring a sunrise at Yujin Bridge with curling smoke and hazy mist, as well as plum blossoms in February. 18-Day Epic China Tour Including Yunnan and Tibet See the Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 18-Day Epic China Tour Including Yunnan and Tibet See the Incredible Beauty of Southwest China 18-Day Epic China Tour Including Yunnan and Tibet See the Incredible Beauty of Southwest China Ethnic Festivals in Shaxi The Temple Fair for Prince Shakyamuni This temple fair is the grandest folk-religion activity in Shaxi, and it is held in Xingjiao Temple on the eighth day of the second Chinese lunar month (almost always in March). Men and women, old and young, wear colorful clothes and festival accessories. They gather in Xingjiao Temple and carry statues of Shakyamuni and the mother of Buddha for parades. The gong and drum team, Buddhism team, Taoism team, and Dongjing music (the Naxi ethnicity Taoist ritual form) team take turns to perform. Coupled with performances on the Old Theater Stage, Square Street is bustling all through the night with dancing, music, and bright lights. People wear ethnic costumes during the Temple Fair The Shibaoshan Folk Song Festival This festival is held on Shibao Mountain (a 30-minute drive from Shaxi Ancient Town) from the 27th day of the seventh lunar month to the first day of the eighth lunar month (in August/September). During the event, Bai people from Jianchuan County, Eryuan County, Lijiang, Dali, and other places put on their national costumes and sing songs in antiphonal style. This traditional festival has continued for over 1,300 years, typically celebrated on the 25th day of the sixth lunar month (in July or August). The flaming torches illuminate the night on that day. You could witness this spectacular celebration at the south gate in Square Street. A little different from the Yi people's Torch Festival, the Bai people celebrate this festival more for blessings, wishing for a bountiful harvest and thriving livestock. The celebrated activities include worshiping the torch, lighting and playing with torches, performing a torch dance, and scattering pine resin powder. Local people would always welcome you to take part in the celebrations with them. Recommended tour: 6-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Ethnic Minorities Tour Visiting Shaxi Ancient Town with Us Shaxi Ancient Town is located between Dali and Lijiang, so travelers typically visit en route between the two major destinations. Half a day is enough for you to visit Shaxi. Sometimes, travelers also go to nearby Shibao Mountain and stay overnight at Shaxi. Here are our most popular tour plans that can be customized to include Shaxi or any other changes, for your reference: • 4-Day Essence Dali Tour — Feel a Dynamic Dali • 4-Day Dali and Tea Horse Road Experience Tour — The Past Prosperity of DaliMeet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan • 7-Day Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang Tour — A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan Or contact us to create a Dali/Lijiang/Shaxi tour according to your requirements.