ID: 68056ab168f2747f
Title: Dongchuan Red Land: Best Times to Visit and How to Get There
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/kunming/attraction/dongchuan-red-land.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Dongchuan Red Land is a new rising tourist destination near Kunming, loved by photographers and backpackers and praised as "God's palette". These red lands, extending for nearly 50 kilometers (31 miles), are the most striking and distinctive in the world. Dongchuan Red Land is about 250 kilometers (155 miles) northeast of Kunming. It is located in Huashitou Village, Xinxiang Town, Dongchuan District, Kunming, Yunnan. The full Chinese address is: 云南省昆明市东川区新乡镇花石头村 • Top Viewing and Photo Spots • Best Times • How to Get to Dongchuan Red Land from Kunming • How Many Days Are Needed? • Accommodation Top Viewing and Photo Spots Here, we will introduce the top places to visit in Dongchuan Red Land to capture its charm and provide you with visiting tips. Luoxiagou: Offering the Most Beautiful Red Land Scenery Luoxiagou is at its best in the afternoon and as its name suggests — "Sunset Valley (Luoxia Gou)". We suggest arriving at Luoxiagou at about 4:30pm. Late afternoon is the best time. Surrounded by mountains, Luoxiagou looks like a sunken depression from a distance. Traditional local villages adorn the colorful fields. A telephoto lens is recommended to capture photos of villages in the distance. Damakan: Offering the Best Sunrise View Due to its local topographical advantage, Damakan is the best site to see a sunrise. A large spread of red fields is in the arms of continuous mountains at the skyline. In order to get a favorable position for perfect pictures, it is recommended to arrive there at 6am. Luosiwan: Best at Sunset This is the entrance to Dongchuan Red Land, named for its resemblance to a spiraling river snail. There, you could admire vast expanses of land characterized by colorful, spiral-patterned terraces. The scenery is particularly enchanting at sunset. Yuepuao: Social Media Hot Spot The landscape there is layered and distinct, with terraced fields resembling a musical staff, giving it its name. There, you could capture scenes of farmers and their livestock working on the red land, which is full of vibrant life. Facing the sunset, the evening light is especially soft, making Yuepuao an ideal spot for capturing photos of the sunset glow. A foreign photographer once took a photo there of an old man with a pipe and his dog, which won an international photography award. As a result, Yuepuao has become a popular spot. Wafang Liangzi: Best at Sunset Just 500 meters (1,640 feet) walking distance from Luosiwan, Wafang Liangzi enjoys a higher location to see Yuepuao and Luosiwan. The best time to enjoy the red land there is at sunset. Jinxiuyuan: Offering the Richest Colors Jinxiuyuan is one of the most colorful areas of the red land, with different hues of soil interwoven like a giant palette. There, you could enjoy the magnificent scenery comprised of vibrant crops and colorful land. Qicaipo: 'Seven-Color Slope' Near Jinxiuyuan, 'Seven-Color Slope' gets its name from seven fields with seven different colors (when the right crops are planted and growing). However, travelers are not usually lucky enough to see the seven colors. It's hard for these plants to bloom at the same time. Beihe Village: Less-Visited Gem Beihecun, a place generally not visited by travelers, is an untouched village set against the background of a red hill. There are well-preserved ancient houses at the foot of the hill. Ancient buildings, local original life, and the red hill make a beautiful picture. You could capture photos of the classic attractions above or ask your guide to take you to Beihecun for something original. Photography Highlights • Afternoon Luoxiagou ('Sunset Valley') shoot • Sunrise in Damakan ('Hit Horse Hole') • Sunset/sunset glow in Wafang Liangzi ('Tiled House Bridge') • The vast red fields of Jinxiuyuan ('Embroidery Garden') • Seize the moment — optional photo stops on the way • Flexibility — you're the boss — shoot any locations you want • Drones are allowed • It's not recommended to wear white shoes as the red soil could easily stain them. You would need a shoe brush to clean it off as wiping with a tissue wouldn't work. • The wind is strong there and the temperature is significantly lower than in the city. It's best to wear a hat and dress warmly. • If you want to go into the fields for photos, please ask the local villagers for permission first (there might be a fee), and avoid damaging crops or the environment. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan Best Times to Visit Dongchuan Red Land The highlight of the red land is the color of the freshly plowed highland soil before crops are planted. The following two time periods are the best for viewing. Photographers could capture vivid red fields just after plowing and before the crops grow as well as farming photos. Potato flowers open in the summer and golden wheat decorates the red fields. With various crop colors, red earth, and blue sky, it's one of the best times to get blood-red field photos. September to November Autumn is another wonderful season to photograph the red fields. Some fields would be turned over for new crops and there are large expanses of highland barley and wheat. Yunnan's unique white cole flowers make the fields more colorful. This is another good time you should not miss. Insider tips: According to the locals, the third day after rainfall is when the red land is at its most beautiful. The rain-soaked soil appears more vibrant and richer under the sunlight. The sky becomes an even more striking blue. If you're lucky, you might even witness a rainbow merging with the red land. According to the locals, the third day after rainfall is when the red land is at its most beautiful. The rain-soaked soil appears more vibrant and richer under the sunlight. The sky becomes an even more striking blue. If you're lucky, you might even witness a rainbow merging with the red land. How to Get to Dongchuan Red Land from Kunming There are three ways to go to Dongchuan Red Land from Kunming: 1. By joining a private tour: It is the most recommended way and a hassle-free choice. Your guide would pick you up directly from your hotel. You would travel in your private car the whole time (you would not share a car with strangers). 2. By long-distance bus: You could take a bus from Kunming North Bus Station to Fazhe passing by Huashitou Village. You need to let the driver know that you need to get off at Huagou. The buses take about 3 to 4 hours to reach the red land. 3. Renting a vehicle from Kunming: Car rental services are typically charged on a daily basis (usually for a one-day tour, with prices at about $100). If you only need a transportation service from Kunming to the red land, you need to negotiate the price with the driver. However, an English-speaking driver is not easy to find. Transport Inside Dongchuan Red Land There are no shuttle buses in Dongchuan Red Land. Private transport needs to be used in the red land because it's so big. Some of the viewing spots are far apart, such as a 40-minute drive between Luoxiagou and Damakan. How Many Days Are Needed? For a regular sightseeing trip without missing the highlights of the red land, we suggest staying in Dongchuan Red Land for 2 days and 1 night. Therefore, you could both enjoy the sunset and sunrise scenery there. If you are a professional photographer, we suggest you stay for 3 days for better photo opportunities. • Day 1: Drive from Kunming to Dongchuan Red Land. Enjoy an afternoon visit to Luoxiagou and Luosiwan. Capture the sunset at Wafang Liangzi and catch the sunset glow at Yuepuao. • Day 2: Enjoy a sunrise at Damakan and visit Jinxiuyuan and Qicaipo. Then, visit a peaceful traditional village, Beihe Village, on the way back to Kunming. If you want to include Kunming in the itinerary, you could add one more day to explore the highlights, such as visiting the Stone Forest, Yuantong Temple, or Green Lake Park. Check out our 3-Day Kunming and Dongchuan Red Land Tour for more details. If you want to make adjustments or tailor a tour based on your requirements, just contact us. Accommodation options in the Dongchuan Red Land area are relatively limited, with most concentrated around Huagou Village. The facilities tend to be quite basic. Breakfast is a traditional Chinese breakfast of rice porridge or noodles, eggs, and pickles. Therefore, we recommend choosing the best available option. Our recommendation is Hongtudi Impression Hotel. You could also check reviews and facility details on platforms like Booking.com or Tripadvisor to select one that meets your requirements. • 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour • 7-Day Yunnan Minorities Cultural Tour • 8-Day 'Meet Yourself' Yunnan Tour