ID: 577acdf27ec75fb9
Title: 2 Weeks in China 2026: Tailored for Your Unforgettable Journey
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tour/14-days-in-china/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

A 2-week journey offers you the perfect opportunity to dive deep into China's diverse wonders without feeling rushed. You've come all this way, and you deserve to make every moment count. We're here to provide you with inspiring options to craft a trip that is uniquely yours. Below, you'll discover four distinct approaches to spending two weeks in China, complete with inspirational itineraries. Think of them as a springboard for your imagination. You can choose one exactly as it is, or, more importantly, use it as a starting point. 2-Week Classic Explorer 2-Week Family Fun & Bonding 2-Week China Tour with a Hong Kong Extension 2-Week Adventure Off the Beaten Path Our travel advisors are ready to tailor every detail to your interests, pace, and budget, creating a unique and unforgettable trip for you and your family. A 2-week journey offers you the perfect opportunity to dive deep into China's diverse wonders without feeling rushed. You've come all this way, and you deserve to make every moment count. We're here to provide you with inspiring options to craft a trip that is uniquely yours. Below, you'll discover four distinct approaches to spending two weeks in China, complete with inspirational itineraries. Think of them as a springboard for your imagination. You can choose one exactly as it is, or, more importantly, use it as a starting point. • 2-Week Classic Explorer • 2-Week Family Fun & Bonding • 2-Week China Tour with a Hong Kong Extension • 2-Week Adventure Off the Beaten Path Our travel advisors are ready to tailor every detail to your interests, pace, and budget, creating a unique and unforgettable trip for you and your family. 2-Week Classic Explorer: Must-Sees with a Twist Every itinerary in this collection includes the iconic trio: Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai. Where they differ is in the additional unique destination that matches your passion: For Nature Lovers: Add the breathtaking Avatar-esque peaks of Zhangjiajie. For Wildlife & Relaxation: Encounter adorable pandas and savor the laid-back vibe of Chengdu. For Spiritual Adventure: Journey to the majestic, roof-of-the-world plateau of Tibet. For History Buffs: Trace the ancient footsteps of traders along the legendary Silk Road. Beyond these destinations, you can also consider alternative options such as Guilin (3-4 days), Guizhou (3-5 days), Guangzhou & Shenzhen (3-5 days), Datong & Pingyao (4-5 days), or Luoyang & Shaolin Temple (3-4 days), among others. 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze Cruise, and Shanghai View More China Golden Triangle with Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, and Shanghai View More Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai View More 2-Week Classic Explorer: Must-Sees with a Twist Every itinerary in this collection includes the iconic trio: Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai. Where they differ is in the additional unique destination that matches your passion: • For Nature Lovers: Add the breathtaking Avatar-esque peaks of Zhangjiajie. • For Wildlife & Relaxation: Encounter adorable pandas and savor the laid-back vibe of Chengdu. • For Spiritual Adventure: Journey to the majestic, roof-of-the-world plateau of Tibet. • For History Buffs: Trace the ancient footsteps of traders along the legendary Silk Road. Beyond these destinations, you can also consider alternative options such as Guilin (3-4 days), Guizhou (3-5 days), Guangzhou & Shenzhen (3-5 days), Datong & Pingyao (4-5 days), or Luoyang & Shaolin Temple (3-4 days), among others. 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze Cruise, and Shanghai View More China Golden Triangle with Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, and Shanghai View More Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai View More 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 14-Day China Natural Wonders Discovery Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze Cruise, and Shanghai View More 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze Cruise, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze Cruise, and Shanghai China Golden Triangle with Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, and Shanghai View More China Golden Triangle with Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, and Shanghai Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai View More Silk Road Highlights and China's Gateway Cities Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Dunhuang, Urumqi, and Shanghai 2-Week Family Fun & Bonding: Memories for All Ages For families, we understand the importance of blending education, adventure, and quality time to create memorable experiences. These itineraries are perfect for families with teenagers and older children, featuring hands-on activities, interactive sights, and a comfortable pace to build lasting memories together. 13-Day Chinese Language and Culture Immersion Tours Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai View More 14-Day Panda and Zhangjiajie Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 14-Day China Natural Wonders Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 14-Day Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze River, and Shanghai View More More China Family Tours 2-Week Family Fun & Bonding: Memories for All Ages For families, we understand the importance of blending education, adventure, and quality time to create memorable experiences. These itineraries are perfect for families with teenagers and older children, featuring hands-on activities, interactive sights, and a comfortable pace to build lasting memories together. 13-Day Chinese Language and Culture Immersion Tours Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai View More 14-Day Panda and Zhangjiajie Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 14-Day China Natural Wonders Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 14-Day Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze River, and Shanghai View More 13-Day Chinese Language and Culture Immersion Tours Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai View More 13-Day Chinese Language and Culture Immersion Tours Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai 14-Day Panda and Zhangjiajie Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 14-Day Panda and Zhangjiajie Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai 14-Day China Natural Wonders Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 14-Day China Natural Wonders Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai 14-Day Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze River, and Shanghai View More 14-Day Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze River, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Chongqing, Yangtze River, and Shanghai More China Family Tours 2-Week China Tour with a Hong Kong Extension If you've ever wished to add vibrant Hong Kong to your trip, you're in for a treat. With convenient flight connections and efficient high-speed rail (just 1 hour to Guangzhou, 3 hours to Guilin), combining both is easier than ever. These itineraries are specially crafted for this desire. 14-Day12-Day Classic China Tour with Panda Hong Kong, Guilin, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 14-Day Nature Wonder Tour Includes Hong Kong Hong Kong, Guilin, Zhangjiajie, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 13-Day China Classic Tour with Hong Kong Hong Kong, Guilin, Shanghai, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 14-Day Classic China Tour with Yangtze River Cruise Hong Kong, Guilin, Chongqing, Yangtze River, Xian, and Beijing View More 2-Week China Tour with a Hong Kong Extension If you've ever wished to add vibrant Hong Kong to your trip, you're in for a treat. With convenient flight connections and efficient high-speed rail (just 1 hour to Guangzhou, 3 hours to Guilin), combining both is easier than ever. These itineraries are specially crafted for this desire. 14-Day12-Day Classic China Tour with Panda Hong Kong, Guilin, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 14-Day Nature Wonder Tour Includes Hong Kong Hong Kong, Guilin, Zhangjiajie, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 13-Day China Classic Tour with Hong Kong Hong Kong, Guilin, Shanghai, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 14-Day Classic China Tour with Yangtze River Cruise Hong Kong, Guilin, Chongqing, Yangtze River, Xian, and Beijing View More 14-Day12-Day Classic China Tour with Panda Hong Kong, Guilin, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 14-Day12-Day Classic China Tour with Panda Hong Kong, Guilin, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More Hong Kong, Guilin, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing 14-Day Nature Wonder Tour Includes Hong Kong Hong Kong, Guilin, Zhangjiajie, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 14-Day Nature Wonder Tour Includes Hong Kong Hong Kong, Guilin, Zhangjiajie, Xi'an, and Beijing View More Hong Kong, Guilin, Zhangjiajie, Xi'an, and Beijing 13-Day China Classic Tour with Hong Kong Hong Kong, Guilin, Shanghai, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 13-Day China Classic Tour with Hong Kong Hong Kong, Guilin, Shanghai, Xi'an, and Beijing View More Hong Kong, Guilin, Shanghai, Xi'an, and Beijing 14-Day Classic China Tour with Yangtze River Cruise Hong Kong, Guilin, Chongqing, Yangtze River, Xian, and Beijing View More 14-Day Classic China Tour with Yangtze River Cruise Hong Kong, Guilin, Chongqing, Yangtze River, Xian, and Beijing View More Hong Kong, Guilin, Chongqing, Yangtze River, Xian, and Beijing 2-Week Adventure Off the Beaten Path Is this your second visit to China, or are you simply drawn to the road less traveled? This collection is for you. Discover the undiscovered, from the otherworldly landscapes of remote regions to immersive cultural encounters deep in the countryside, far from the crowds. 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar Lhasa, Shigatse, Saga, Mt. Kailash, Zanda, Paryang, and Sakya View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Tiger Leaping Gorge, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 2-Week Adventure Off the Beaten Path Is this your second visit to China, or are you simply drawn to the road less traveled? This collection is for you. Discover the undiscovered, from the otherworldly landscapes of remote regions to immersive cultural encounters deep in the countryside, far from the crowds. 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar Lhasa, Shigatse, Saga, Mt. Kailash, Zanda, Paryang, and Sakya View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Tiger Leaping Gorge, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More Xi'an, Zhangye, Jiayuguan, Dunhuang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar Lhasa, Shigatse, Saga, Mt. Kailash, Zanda, Paryang, and Sakya View More 14-Day Tibet Tour with Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar Lhasa, Shigatse, Saga, Mt. Kailash, Zanda, Paryang, and Sakya View More Lhasa, Shigatse, Saga, Mt. Kailash, Zanda, Paryang, and Sakya 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Tiger Leaping Gorge, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Tiger Leaping Gorge, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome View More Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Tiger Leaping Gorge, Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More 12-Day Yunnan and Xinjiang Scenic Tour Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar View More Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Turpan, Urumqi, and Kashgar Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice