ID: 6d05c99f73e50d22
Title: Guizhou Tours, Guizhou Miao Minority Tours
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/guizhou/tours.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Guizhou has more than Laoganma chili sauces and Maotai baijiu. There can hardly be a province in China as magical as Guizhou, where centuries-old ethnic civilization and world-leading technical miracles have dramatically fused together. Guizhou is the provincial home of many of China's of ethnic minorities, yet like any other traditional cultures, some ancient custom is facing challenges on the wane and disappearing. Our private Guizhou tour gives insight into the diverse minority cultures and beyond it, Guizhou as China's new big data valley and wonderland of picturesque karst landscape is expected to be discovered. Best Guizhou Tours The following routes are examples to help you tailor your own Guizhou tour. Tell us what you would like. Our dedicated one to one experts are waiting to create a unique tour to suit your preferences. Experience the Vitality of Guizhou 5-Day Guizhou Spring Tour View More Encounter Ethnic Warmth and Isolated Beauty 6-Day Guizhou Tour with Mt. Fanjing View More Discover the Colorful Chinese Minority Culture 6-Day Diverse Minority Adventure View More Time-Smart Guizhou Minorities Discovery 3-Day Guizhou Weekend Tour View More Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Guizhou Relaxation Tour View More Experience the Splendid Culture of Minority Festival 6-Day Minority Festival Tour View More Natural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List 10-Day Natural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List View More Time Travel in Guizhou 6-Day Time Travel in Guizhou View More No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us Trip Notes for Guizhou Travel Expand All 1. Guizhou Travel Video Enjoy the beautiful scenery of Guizhou and feel free to inquire us if you have any questions. 2. Guizhou Maps 3. Ease of access As China's new big data valley, the network of Guizhou high-speed rail now links to many directions over the country. Guizhou is a mountainous province but roads to every villages are accessible. So car is a ideal vehicle when transferring between villages. To provide you with a comfortable experience, private car is provided. 4. Best time to visit August to October is the best time to visit Guizhou. 5. Hotels & Restaurants Hotels: The facilities and service standards at hotels in Guizhou are not as good as those at hotels in larger cities. Air conditioning is available in some better hotels. Hotels in some towns may serve only Chinese breakfasts. During the tours, only basic Chinese toilets are typically available. Restaurants: Local restaurants offer Chinese food in a basic environment. 6. What to pack Temperatures can vary greatly between day and night, so warm clothes are required even in summer. Bring shoes suitable for walking. Mosquito-repellent is also necessary when touring village areas in summer. No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us Guizhou has more than Laoganma chili sauces and Maotai baijiu. There can hardly be a province in China as magical as Guizhou, where centuries-old ethnic civilization and world-leading technical miracles have dramatically fused together. Guizhou is the provincial home of many of China's of ethnic minorities, yet like any other traditional cultures, some ancient custom is facing challenges on the wane and disappearing. Our private Guizhou tour gives insight into the diverse minority cultures and beyond it, Guizhou as China's new big data valley and wonderland of picturesque karst landscape is expected to be discovered. The following routes are examples to help you tailor your own Guizhou tour. Tell us what you would like. Our dedicated one to one experts are waiting to create a unique tour to suit your preferences. Experience the Vitality of Guizhou 5-Day Guizhou Spring Tour View More Encounter Ethnic Warmth and Isolated Beauty 6-Day Guizhou Tour with Mt. Fanjing View More Discover the Colorful Chinese Minority Culture 6-Day Diverse Minority Adventure View More Time-Smart Guizhou Minorities Discovery 3-Day Guizhou Weekend Tour View More Experience the Vitality of Guizhou 5-Day Guizhou Spring Tour View More Experience the Vitality of Guizhou 5-Day Guizhou Spring Tour View More Encounter Ethnic Warmth and Isolated Beauty 6-Day Guizhou Tour with Mt. Fanjing View More Encounter Ethnic Warmth and Isolated Beauty 6-Day Guizhou Tour with Mt. Fanjing View More Discover the Colorful Chinese Minority Culture 6-Day Diverse Minority Adventure View More Discover the Colorful Chinese Minority Culture 6-Day Diverse Minority Adventure View More Time-Smart Guizhou Minorities Discovery 3-Day Guizhou Weekend Tour View More Time-Smart Guizhou Minorities Discovery 3-Day Guizhou Weekend Tour View More Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Guizhou Relaxation Tour View More Experience the Splendid Culture of Minority Festival 6-Day Minority Festival Tour View More Natural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List 10-Day Natural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List View More Time Travel in Guizhou 6-Day Time Travel in Guizhou View More Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Guizhou Relaxation Tour View More Picturesque Karst Scenery and Idyllic Countryside 8-Day Guilin, Yangshuo and Guizhou Relaxation Tour View More Experience the Splendid Culture of Minority Festival 6-Day Minority Festival Tour View More Experience the Splendid Culture of Minority Festival 6-Day Minority Festival Tour View More Natural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List 10-Day Natural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List View More Natural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List 10-Day Natural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List View More Time Travel in Guizhou 6-Day Time Travel in Guizhou View More Time Travel in Guizhou 6-Day Time Travel in Guizhou View More No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Trip Notes for Guizhou Travel Expand All 1. Guizhou Travel Video Enjoy the beautiful scenery of Guizhou and feel free to inquire us if you have any questions. 2. Guizhou Maps 3. Ease of access As China's new big data valley, the network of Guizhou high-speed rail now links to many directions over the country. Guizhou is a mountainous province but roads to every villages are accessible. So car is a ideal vehicle when transferring between villages. To provide you with a comfortable experience, private car is provided. 4. Best time to visit August to October is the best time to visit Guizhou. 5. Hotels & Restaurants Hotels: The facilities and service standards at hotels in Guizhou are not as good as those at hotels in larger cities. Air conditioning is available in some better hotels. Hotels in some towns may serve only Chinese breakfasts. During the tours, only basic Chinese toilets are typically available. Restaurants: Local restaurants offer Chinese food in a basic environment. 6. What to pack Temperatures can vary greatly between day and night, so warm clothes are required even in summer. Bring shoes suitable for walking. Mosquito-repellent is also necessary when touring village areas in summer. 1. Guizhou Travel Video Enjoy the beautiful scenery of Guizhou and feel free to inquire us if you have any questions. Enjoy the beautiful scenery of Guizhou and feel free to inquire us if you have any questions. As China's new big data valley, the network of Guizhou high-speed rail now links to many directions over the country. Guizhou is a mountainous province but roads to every villages are accessible. So car is a ideal vehicle when transferring between villages. To provide you with a comfortable experience, private car is provided. As China's new big data valley, the network of Guizhou high-speed rail now links to many directions over the country. Guizhou is a mountainous province but roads to every villages are accessible. So car is a ideal vehicle when transferring between villages. To provide you with a comfortable experience, private car is provided. 4. Best time to visit August to October is the best time to visit Guizhou. August to October is the best time to visit Guizhou. 5. Hotels & Restaurants Hotels: The facilities and service standards at hotels in Guizhou are not as good as those at hotels in larger cities. Air conditioning is available in some better hotels. Hotels in some towns may serve only Chinese breakfasts. During the tours, only basic Chinese toilets are typically available. Restaurants: Local restaurants offer Chinese food in a basic environment. Hotels: The facilities and service standards at hotels in Guizhou are not as good as those at hotels in larger cities. Air conditioning is available in some better hotels. Hotels in some towns may serve only Chinese breakfasts. During the tours, only basic Chinese toilets are typically available. Restaurants: Local restaurants offer Chinese food in a basic environment. Temperatures can vary greatly between day and night, so warm clothes are required even in summer. Bring shoes suitable for walking. Mosquito-repellent is also necessary when touring village areas in summer. Temperatures can vary greatly between day and night, so warm clothes are required even in summer. Bring shoes suitable for walking. Mosquito-repellent is also necessary when touring village areas in summer. No Suitable Tour? Need Advice?