ID: 52113748f6fe2e1d
Title: Shanghai Disneyland Park: How to Visit and Tips
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/shanghai/attraction/disneyland-park.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Shanghai Disneyland Park is the first Disney theme park in Chinese mainland, which blends the magic of Disney and unique cultural elements of China. Embark on a magical journey through various themed lands filled with world-class attractions and spectacular entertainment. "Firsts" at Shanghai Disneyland Park Adhering to the essence of a traditional "Disneyland" theme park, Shanghai Disneyland Park boasts many innovations and variations. • Mickey Avenue: the first main entrance road at a Disney park, which is themed around Mickey Mouse and his pals. • Enchanted Storybook Castle: the tallest and largest castle at any Disney park; the first castle that presents all the Disney princesses. • Treasure Cove: the first pirate-themed land in a Disney park. • Gardens of Imagination: the first land designed as a garden in a Disney park. • Fantasia-inspired carousel: the first carousel in a Disney park that features the music and mythical creatures from the classic Disney film, Fantasia. • The longest Disney park parade route: filled with beloved Disney characters. Highlights You Won't Want to Miss There are six themed lands in Shanghai Disneyland Park: Mickey Avenue, Gardens of Imagination, Adventure Isle, Treasure Cove, Fantasyland, and Tomorrowland. Here are some highlights of each land: Map of Shanghai Disneyland Park • Hug some favorite Disney characters and take a photo with them. • Buy gifts and collectables on Avenue M Arcade. • Enjoy local Chinese and international food and snacks. Gardens of Imagination • Take a spin on the Fantasia Carousel or soar on the back of Dumbo the Flying Elephant. • Find your Chinese Zodiac animal sign on the wall in the Garden of the Twelve Friends. • Stroll along the charming bridges and trails. Take a spin on the Fantasia Carousel. • Explore waterfalls, ruins and dig sites at Camp Discovery. • Travel across time and space in Soaring Over the Horizon. • Ride a raft to venture through the heart of Adventure Isle. • Led by Captain Jack Sparrow, attempt to steal the priceless treasure of Davy Jones and dive deep underwater to encounter mermaids and even a kraken. • Paddle canoes to experience a Caribbean island. • Enjoy the stage play of "Eye of the Storm: Captain Jack's Stunt Spectacular" at El Teatro Fandango. • Follow the Voyage to the Crystal Grotto to travel beneath the Enchanted Storybook Castle. • Ride on the Seven Dwarfs Mine Train to wind through tunnels glowing with dazzling diamonds. • Follow Alice through a dazzling Wonderland maze. • Ride atop two-wheeled Lightcycles to explore a mysterious world with a fabulous setting, music, and light. • Join a mission to help save the world with Buzz Lightyear Planet Rescue. • Fly with Jet Packs to become a space pilot and experience the thrill of flying. You can also see shows and parades in the park. You can get a schedule of show and parade times at the park entrance. How to See Shanghai Disneyland in One Day It is impossible to visit all the attractions in one day, so just choose what you like and make a good plan before you going there. Before you head off make sure you download the official Shanghai Disneyland App as it displays live standby times and has an offline map of the park. Try to arrive at the park before 7:30am. One minute later possibly means one more hour waiting in the park. Here is a travel route covering all top-ranked attractions and shows: Upon entry at 9am, take a sharp right and power rush to the Fastpass station at Adventure Land and get your Fastpass for Soaring Over the Horizon. It is more convenient to get it on your phone. 1. Firstly, head to Tomorrowland for the TRON Lightcycle Power Run, one of the fastest coasters in the park. If you want a milder ride, go for Jet Packs. 2. Then, line up Disney Magic ride the Seven Dwarfs Mine Train at Fantasyland. 3. Afterwards, head to Treasure Cove for Pirates of the Caribbean Battle for the Sunken Treasure and dive deep underwater to meet monsters and seek treasure. 4. Around 11:00, grab a Fastpast for Roaring Rapids at Adventure Isle. 5. According to the time on your Fastpast experience Soaring Over the Horizon. Around 12:00, head to Mickey Avenue for Disney characters parade. Then take lunch in the park or at Disneytown. 1. Head to Adventure Isle for Roaring Rapids according to the designated time on your Fastpast. 2. Pick from the remaining attractions and shows. • Recommended attractions: Explorer Canoes, Camp Discovery, and Peter Pan's Flight • Recommended shows: "Tarzan: Call of the Jungle", "Frozen: A Sing-Along Celebration", and "Golden Fairytale Fanfare" 3. When the sun sets, go onboard the Voyage to the Crystal Grotto at Fantasyland, a Disneyland Shanghai exclusive ride that features numerous sculpture gardens and takes you underneath Storybook Castle. 4. At 8:30pm, watch Disneyland Shanghai's daily fireworks show titled Ignite the Dream. Many people choose to depart the park after the fireworks show. The waiting time declines sharply. If you still have energy and time, it is a golden time to experience more attractions. 1. If you don't like adventure, don't try TRON Lightcycle Power Run, the Seven Dwarfs Mine Train, and Soaring Over the Horizon 2. If you travel with kids, don't miss the attractions: • Fantasyland: Enchanted Storybook Castle, the Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, Peter Pan's Flight, "Once Upon a Time" Adventure, Hunny Pot Spin • Gardens of Imagination: Fantasia Carousel, Dumbo the Flying Elephant • Tomorrowland: Buzz Lightyear Planet Rescue, Stitch Encounter 3. If you have visited Disneyland in other places and have trouble deciding what to see and do, the following attractions are unique to Shanghai Disneyland: • Once Upon A Time Adventure: Step into the Enchanted Storybook Castle to experience the classic tale of Snow White. • Camp Discovery: Disney's first obstacle course comes complete with a swing bridge over a waterfall and some great elevated views of the park. • Explorer Canoes: You will work with other guests to row a canoe around the first pirate-themed Treasure Cove. How to Avoid the Crowds • Pick up a Disney Fastpass (see more below). • Arrive early in the morning to queue at the entrance. Even though the park opens around 9 am, you'd better to get there before 7:30 am. • Book accommodation in Shanghai Disneyland Hotel or Toy Story Hotel. The guests of the hotels can enter the park through a special entrance to avoid long lines. • Avoid weekends and holidays, such as Labor Day (May 1st to 7th) and National Day (October 1st to 7th). • Download the Shanghai Disney Resort App to see estimated attraction wait times and plan your touring route. You are highly recommended to pick up a Disney Fastpass. It is very helpful to shorten your waiting times for selected attractions. You may obtain a Fastpass at participating Guest Services locations or on the Shanghai Disney Resort Official App for no extra charge and subject to availability. Disney Fastpass Attractions Include: • TRON Lightcycle Power Run - Tomorrowland • Buzz Lightyear Planet Rescue - Tomorrowland • Seven Dwarfs Mine Train - Fantasyland • The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh - Fantasyland • Peter Pan's Flight - Fantasyland • Roaring Rapids - Adventure Isle • Soaring Over the Horizon - Adventure Isle How the Fastpass Works To get a Fastpass on your mobile device: • Step 1: After entering the Park, open the Shanghai Disney Resort App, scan your park ticket, sign in, and select "Get Fastpass". • Step 2: Create a party in the app by linking your friends' or family's tickets, so that you can enjoy the attractions together. • Step 3: Select the attractions you want to experience. • Step 4: Go to the attractions you select at designated times and show your QR code on the app. To get a Fastpass at a Disney Fastpass distribution kiosk: • Step 1: Scan your park ticket at a Disney Fastpass distribution kiosk. • Step 2: Select the attractions that you wish to experience. • Step 3: Go to the attractions you select at designated times shown on the Fastpass. Show your Fastpass to the attraction staff and enjoy a minimal wait in line. 1. The first thing to do when you enter the park should be to pick up a Fastpass, which are quickly snapped up. 2. It is much more energy-saving and time-saving to get the Fastpass on the Shanghai Disney Resort App. 3. You can only select one attraction for a Fastpass visit each 2 hours. Jet Packs, Tomorrowland How to Get to Disneyland Park Shanghai Shanghai Disneyland is in the core zone of Shanghai International Tourism and Resorts Zone, Chuansha New Town, Pudong New Area. It is approximately 21 kilometers east from the center of Shanghai, 12 kilometers west from Pudong International Airport, and 30 kilometers east from the Hongqiao transport hub. From Shanghai downtown By metro: You can take metro Line 11 and get off the train at the terminal station: Disney Resort. On arrival, take Exit 1 and walk about 5 minutes to the park. By bus: You can take bus Pudong 50, 51, or 52 to South Public Transit Hub in the middle of Shanghai Disney Resort. Then transfer to shuttle bus 2 or 3 to the resort, or walk for about one mile (1.6 km). By taxi: It takes about one hour from downtown Shanghai to Disneyland by taxi, and costs about 130 yuan. From Shanghai Pudong Airport By metro: Take the Maglev or metro Line 2 to Longyan Road, then Line 16 to Luoshan Road, and Line 11 to Disney Resort. By taxi: It takes about 40 minutes from Shanghai Pudong Airport to Shanghai Disney Resort and costs about 70 yuan. From Shanghai Hongqiao Airport By metro: Take metro Line 10 at Shanghai Hongqiao Airport to Shanghai Jiaotong University Station, then Line 11 to Disney Resort. By taxi: It takes about 1 hour from Shanghai Hongqiao Airport to Shanghai Disney Resort area and costs about 200 yuan. Three methods to book your ticket: 1. Book on the official website: https://www.shanghaidisneyresort.com/en/ 2. Book on mobile app. Download the official app at https://www.shanghaidisneyresort.com/en/download-shanghai-disney-mobile-app/ 3. Book via phone: 400-180-0000, +86-21-3158-0000. Ticket Prices [January 2021] Ticket Type Regular Weekends, public holidays, July & August Standard (1.4m+ / 4'8"+) 1-day CNY 399 CNY 499-CNY 599 2-day CNY 670 CNY 900 Child (1–1.4m / 3'4"–4'8") Senior (aged 65+) 1-day CNY 299 CNY 375-CNY 450 2-day CNY 510 CNY 680 Places to Stay, Shop, and Relax The Disney Resort includes two themed hotels: Shanghai Disneyland Hotel and Toy Story Hotel. Shuttle buses are available between the park and hotels. Disneytown is just outside the park. It hosts a blend of shopping, dining, and entertainment. It is free to enter. The Wishing Star Park is a great place to enjoy a leisurely stroll, with beautiful gardens, a walking path, and a glittering lake. Facilities You May Need 1. Daily wheelchair/stroller rentals are available for 90 yuan. 2. ATM machines are available in the park. You can use UnionPay, Visa Card, MasterCard, etc. 3. The Baby Care Center next to "First Aid" on Mickey Avenue provides a convenient place to feed, change, and nurse your little ones. 4. Luggage Storage services are available for an additional fee. You can store any size luggage for a per-piece fee of 80 yuan per day. • The Bund - one of the world's most recognizable architectural symbols and the pride of Shanghai. • Yuyuan Garden - with an exquisite layout, beautiful scenery, and the artistic style of the ancient China. • Zhujiajiao Water Town - endowed with waterways, ancient bridges, and traditional Chinese-style residences. Touring Shanghai Disneyland Park with Us Since the Disneyland Park opened, it has become another highlight of a Shanghai tour. Travel with China Highlights to discover Shanghai in your own way. See Shanghai Family Disneyland Tour: Create happy family memories - a whole day in Shanghai Disneyland. See more Shanghai Tours. Our tours are customizable - tell us your interests and requirements and we will help you to tailor-make a Shanghai tour