ID: 6b63abf712bef10
Title: Mount Emei: How to Visit from Chengdu
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/leshan/attraction/mount-emei.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Mount Emei is one of China's four famous Buddhist mountains and a UNESCO World Heritage Site, renowned for its stunning scenery. Imagine a clear day, standing above the sea of clouds, with the brilliant golden statue of Samantabhadra (普贤金佛) before you. Or take a leisurely stroll through ancient forests, encountering the monkeys that inhabit the mountain. Whether you are an avid hiker or passionate about Buddhist culture, Mount Emei is undoubtedly the best choice. As a tour guide in Chengdu, I lead clients to Mount Emei over twenty times a year. I remember one time when a client told me that, despite visiting many mountains, only Mount Emei made her feel closest to Buddha spiritually. Evan Ye 10 Years as a Local Guide Hi, I'm Evan. I moved to Chengdu for university in 2008. My life took an exciting turn during my junior year (2011) when I began working as a tour guide, eventually progressing to leading international tour groups across a dozen countries. While my career has taken me worldwide, Chengdu remains my true home. I really love its laid-back lifestyle, delicious food, and friendly people. I can't wait to explore this city with you. 10 Years as a Local Guide Hi, I'm Evan. I moved to Chengdu for university in 2008. My life took an exciting turn during my junior year (2011) when I began working as a tour guide, eventually progressing to leading international tour groups across a dozen countries. While my career has taken me worldwide, Chengdu remains my true home. I really love its laid-back lifestyle, delicious food, and friendly people. I can't wait to explore this city with you. • How to Get to It from Chengdu? • A Same-Day Round Trip from Chengdu or an Overnight Stay? • Where to Stay • Best Times to Visit • Other Travel Tips How to Get to Mount Emei from Chengdu? Mount Emei is about 200 kilometers from Chengdu, taking roughly 3.5 hours by car. You can also take the high-speed train from Chengdu East Station or Chengdu South Station to Emei Mountain, which takes about an hour. There are two stations in Emei City: Emei Station and Emei Mountain Station, with the latter being closer to the city center and the Emei Mountain Visitor Center. After reaching Emei Mountain Station, another 10-20 minutes' driving is needed to reach the Emei Mountain. Taking into account the time needed to travel from your hotel to the train station, wait for the train, and take a taxi to the scenic area, the overall travel time is roughly comparable to that of using a private car. We generally recommend driving directly from Chengdu for greater flexibility and comfort. If you need a private vehicle and a driver, or also need a guide, please contact us. A Same-Day Round Trip from Chengdu or an Overnight Stay? Golden Summit of Mount Emei We do not recommend a same-day round trip from Chengdu, especially during peak season, as most of your time will be spent on the road, leaving little opportunity to enjoy the beauty of Mount Emei. The Leshan Giant Buddha is about an hour's drive from Mount Emei. We usually suggest starting from Chengdu and visiting the Leshan Giant Buddha first, which takes about two hours by car. Our guests visited the Leshan Giant Buddha After visiting the Leshan Giant Buddha, you can stay overnight at the foot of Mount Emei and visit Mount Emei the next day. At the foot of the mountain, there is a Baoguosi Temple, which some visitors explore in the afternoon. Some guests who have already visited many temples tell me that Baoguosi Temple is a bit boring. There are scenic views everywhere on Mount Emei, with the most prominent being the Golden Summit at the peak and the Wannian Temple located within the mountain. • If you plan to return to Chengdu the next day, you'll only have time to visit either the Golden Summit or the Wannian Temple. • If you stay for two nights, you can visit both. Most guests typically stay one night. Recommended Chengdu Tours with Mount Emei 7-Day Chengdu, Buddha, Mount Emei and Jiuzhaigou Tour Recommended Chengdu Tours with Mount Emei • 7-Day Chengdu, Buddha, Mount Emei and Jiuzhaigou Tour Golden Summit or Wannian Temple Compared to Wannian Temple, I personally recommend Jinding more. If you're lucky, you might witness a breathtaking sunrise and a sea of clouds, although this is not guaranteed. Even if you don't see the sea of clouds, you can still admire the world's largest and tallest statue of Samantabhadra. The golden statue of Samantabhadra and Golden Summit under sunrise and sea of ​​clouds When visiting Wannian Temple, if you take the cable car both up and down, it's like visiting an additional temple. If you choose to hike down the mountain, which takes 1.5 to 3 hours, you can enjoy more scenery and might even see some monkeys. Hike to see more scenery The Golden Summit, at an elevation of 3,077 meters, is the highest point accessible on Mount Emei. • Departing from the hotel at the foot of Mount Emei at 8:00 AM, you'll take the scenic area shuttle bus and arrive at Leidongping around 10:00 AM. • Then, it's a 30-minute walk to the cable car station to ascend to the summit. You might encounter some monkeys along the way. If you don't want to walk this 30-minute route, you can pay to take a sedan chair. The cost is approximately CNY 400-500 per trip. From Leidongping to the cable car station Our guests traveled in sedan chairs • If there's no queue for the cable car, you can reach the Golden Summit before 11:00 AM. • Stay at the summit for about an hour, then have lunch at Leidongping around 1:00 PM. • After lunch, take the shuttle bus down, arriving at the foot of the mountain around 4:00 PM. • You'll return to Chengdu by 7:00 PM. During peak season, such as Labor Day in May, summer vacation in July and August, National Day in October, and the Spring Festival, the queue for the Golden Summit cable car can take 1.5 hours or more. During peak season, such as Labor Day in May, summer vacation in July and August, National Day in October, and the Spring Festival, the queue for the Golden Summit cable car can take 1.5 hours or more. Wannian Temple is one of the oldest temples on Mount Emei, housing a bronze statue of Samantabhadra from the Song Dynasty (AD 980) and a distinctive beamless brick hall (AD 1600). From the Visitor Center at the foot of the mountain, take a 40-minute shuttle bus to the Wannian Temple cable car station, then ride the cable car up and down. After visiting Wannian Temple, you can also walk down the mountain, taking the route from Qingyin Pavilion to Yixiantian to Qingyin Pavilion to Wuxianggang. This segment typically takes about 3 hours on foot, with lush greenery and tranquility. After passing Yixiantian, you'll reach the monkey area, where you're likely to see monkeys. Monkeys in Mount Emei If you don't visit the monkey area, it takes about 1.5 hours to walk down to Wuxianggang. From Wuxianggang, you can take the scenic area shuttle bus back to the foot of the mountain. The combination of the shuttle bus and cable car is the choice of 90% of visitors, as it is the most time-efficient and recommended method. Occasionally, we have clients who request to hike the entire route. Full hiking usually requires two days and is quite strenuous. There are two hiking routes: 1. Baoguo Temple - Fuhu Temple - Qingyin Pavilion - Yixiantian - Ecological Monkey Area - Xixiang Pool - Leidongping - Jieyin Hall - Golden Summit: approximately 60 km. 2. Baoguo Temple - Fuhu Temple - Qingyin Pavilion - Wannian Temple - Xixiang Pool - Leidongping - Jieyin Hall - Golden Summit: approximately 42 km. The combination of the shuttle bus and cable car is the choice of 90% of visitors, as it is the most time-efficient and recommended method. Occasionally, we have clients who request to hike the entire route. Full hiking usually requires two days and is quite strenuous. There are two hiking routes: 1. Baoguo Temple - Fuhu Temple - Qingyin Pavilion - Yixiantian - Ecological Monkey Area - Xixiang Pool - Leidongping - Jieyin Hall - Golden Summit: approximately 60 km. 2. Baoguo Temple - Fuhu Temple - Qingyin Pavilion - Wannian Temple - Xixiang Pool - Leidongping - Jieyin Hall - Golden Summit: approximately 42 km. Where to Stay in Mount Emei If you plan to stay overnight at Mount Emei, we usually recommend accommodations at the foot of the mountain. There are many options available. You can choose a hot spring hotel to relax, such as Hongzhushan Forest Hot Spring. At night, you can explore the night market and taste local Emei cuisine, or enjoy the Emei Sacred Elephant Cultural Performance (峨眉圣象文化演出). Performances at Mount Emei If you want to catch the sunrise at the summit, consider staying at Leidongping area or the Golden Summit Hotel at the peak. • Leidongping: Prices are lower compared to the Golden Summit, and most hotels are locally built, focusing on economy and comfort, with more dining options. However, you need to start early to walk 30 minutes to the cable car station to reach the summit in time for sunrise. • Golden Summit: The Golden Summit Hotel is more expensive with fewer dining options but is very convenient, allowing you to walk just 10 minutes to see the sunrise and the sea of clouds. Mount Emei is known for its saying, "One mountain has four seasons; ten miles have different weather." Given the rapidly changing weather at the summit, the sunrise is heavily reliant on weather conditions and luck. Personally, I recommend staying at the foot of the mountain for the best experience. Best Times to Visit Mount Emei I personally recommend visiting in autumn, especially in November when the weather is most stable, with plenty of sunny days, increasing the chances of witnessing the sunrise and sea of clouds. • In spring(April to June), you can see alpine rhododendrons. • In summer(July to August), it's a great place to escape the heat. Mount Emei is cool in summer • In autumn (October to November), enjoy the colorful foliage. • In winter (December to February), marvel at the snow. • The winding roads of Mount Emei can easily cause motion sickness. I usually prepare motion sickness patches for my clients. It's advisable to sit in the front row. If you end up in the back, you can get off to wait for the next one. The staff will inform you when the next bus is expected, typically within half an hour, but usually, another bus will arrive within a few minutes. • The monkeys on Mount Emei are wild, and you may not encounter them all the time. If you do see monkeys, be cautious when taking photos and avoid getting too close. Personal belongings are often stolen by monkeys. • In winter, temperatures are generally low, so dress warmly with hats and gloves. The ground may be icy, so choose comfortable, warm, and waterproof shoes. I typically prepare anti-slip ice grips for my guests. In winter, the wheels will be equipped with anti-skid chains Enjoy Mount Emei with China Highlights It is not easy to tour Mount Emei on your own as it has so many attractions in the 150-square-kilometer scenic area. A local guide will really help. Your guide will suggest the best way for touring according to your physical condition and interests. He/she will find the best viewing point for you. Contact us to customize your tour by telling us your needs and interests. You can also combine your visit to Mount Emei with our most popular Chengdu tour below: • 5-Day Chengdu, Leshan, and Mount Emei Tour • 6-Day Chengdu, Dujiangyan, Leshan and Emei Tour