ID: 9a88fb3759da27e
Title: One-Day Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/zhangjiajie/one-day-zhangjiajie-forest-park-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Zhangjiajie is known for its unique tourist sights, including strange-shaped pillars, hidden valleys, seas of cloud, and limestone caves. It is one of the must-see places in China. The main attractions of Zhangjiajie are in Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Towering sandstones mesas, dense forests, and deep ravines are the gorgeous natural landscape of the scenic area. Zhangjiajie National Forest Park is the most famous part of it. Head into Wulingyuan Scenic Area and ride a cable car up Tianzi Mountain, glimpsing the Wuling Mountains, go find the Avatar Hallelujah Mountains in Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, take the 1100-foot glass Bailong Elevator down the mountain. Take your camera and get all these experience in our one-day tour in a small group with knowledgable guide! Join us! Tour Highlights Have a bird's eye view while taking the cable car up Tianzi Mountain. Feel the thrill of riding a glass elevator down the side of the mountain. Escape from your busy routine to see the most beautiful natural scenery and seek advanture here. Get up close and personal with the mountains from the movie "Avatar" and visit other famous spots. The Design of the Day Trip Mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. Free hotel pick-up and drop-off. No more worries about the difficult traffic system in Zhangjiajie. A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! VIP treatment with No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 - 9:00Hotel Pickup The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby (or at the appointed location) at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). Professional tour guide and our vehicle Good to Know: We offer free hotel pick-up and drop-off services if your hotel/airbnb/accommodation is Zhangjiajie downtown or Zhangjiajie Train Station. For further distances, there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Please provide your hotel information on the booking form. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 9:00 – 10:00Drive to Zhangjiajie National Forest Park After picking up all the group members we will head to our destination – Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. It will take 50-60 minites from downtown to the park by car. The guide will introduce the park on the way, and tell you something you are interested of Zhangjiajie, like food, lifestyle, etc. The gate of Wulingyuan Scenic Area Zhangjiajie National Forest Park 10:00 –12:00Take cable car to the Tianzi Mountain and visit on the top First, we will take a cable car (included) to the top of Tianzi Mountain. It is with 692 meters' difference in elevation, the aerial tramway is 2,084 meters in length and will be running six minutes and twenty-two seconds for a single trip during which you can get a wonderful bird's eye view of the Tianzi Mountain. Cable car In the cable car Arrival at Tianzi Mountain, and you will see large areas of grotesque peaks thrusting up. It is called 'the Monarch of the Peak Forest'. At the top of the mountain, visitors can see the full extent of the Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Walking along the steps spectacular views unfold in front of you from different angles. Beautiful scenes of the mountain greet visitors in different seasons. Tianzi Mountain was formed by sedimentary rocks 318 million years ago. Those rocks, eroded by the water and wind, slowly turned into quartz stones, which formed those amazing peaks in the scenic area. Tianzi Mountain Tianzi Mountain Our guests in Tianzi Mountain 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time Please note that our tour does not include lunch fee. After visiting Tianzi Mountain, you can have a lunch at the top of the mountain. There are some local restaurants and fast food here. The price is a little higher than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts. McDonald's on the mountain 13:00 – 15:30Visit Avatar Hallelujah Mountains in Yuanjiajie In the afternoon, ride a public shuttle bus (included) to Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, whose mountains are the prototype of Avatar's Hallelujah Mountain. Yuanjiajie, located in the north of Zhangjiejie National Forest Park, is a mountain platform with an area of about 1,200 hectares and an average altitude of 1,074 meters. Scenes in Avatar come to mind when the peaks are caught in the right light or when the early morning mountain mist rolls in around them. "Hallelujah Mountain" Back Garden Our guests in Yuanjia Village Our guests in Yuanjiajie Good to Know: This area is the most visited area due to its fame. It takes about 1 hour to walk the tourist trails, before you take the shuttle bus for the cable car down the mountain. There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. Peaks in Yuanjiajie Taking photos of Hallelujah Mountain 15:30–17:00Take Bailong Elevator Down Then Back to Your Hotel Bailong Elevator (included) is the highest, fastest, fully exposed outdoor double-decker sightseeing elevator with the largest capacity in the world. The elevator is made of glass and transparent, you can also see the Gardens in Air during the ride. It runs only 2 minutes, but at peak times you might need to queue one or two hours in line to get onboard. If you are interested in taking the elevator, tell your guide in advance, so that he/she can arrange beforehand to avoid the long queues. Bailong Elevator After going down from the mountain, our trip comes to an end. You will be dropped off at your hotel. Price Include: Admission to Zhangjiajie National Park, including cable car, shuttle bus and Bailong elevator. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Zhangjiajie. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Zhangjiajie What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Zhangjiajie is known for its unique tourist sights, including strange-shaped pillars, hidden valleys, seas of cloud, and limestone caves. It is one of the must-see places in China. The main attractions of Zhangjiajie are in Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Towering sandstones mesas, dense forests, and deep ravines are the gorgeous natural landscape of the scenic area. Zhangjiajie National Forest Park is the most famous part of it. Head into Wulingyuan Scenic Area and ride a cable car up Tianzi Mountain, glimpsing the Wuling Mountains, go find the Avatar Hallelujah Mountains in Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, take the 1100-foot glass Bailong Elevator down the mountain. Take your camera and get all these experience in our one-day tour in a small group with knowledgable guide! Join us! Zhangjiajie is known for its unique tourist sights, including strange-shaped pillars, hidden valleys, seas of cloud, and limestone caves. It is one of the must-see places in China. The main attractions of Zhangjiajie are in Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Towering sandstones mesas, dense forests, and deep ravines are the gorgeous natural landscape of the scenic area. Zhangjiajie National Forest Park is the most famous part of it. Head into Wulingyuan Scenic Area and ride a cable car up Tianzi Mountain, glimpsing the Wuling Mountains, go find the Avatar Hallelujah Mountains in Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, take the 1100-foot glass Bailong Elevator down the mountain. Take your camera and get all these experience in our one-day tour in a small group with knowledgable guide! Join us! Tour Highlights Have a bird's eye view while taking the cable car up Tianzi Mountain. Feel the thrill of riding a glass elevator down the side of the mountain. Escape from your busy routine to see the most beautiful natural scenery and seek advanture here. Get up close and personal with the mountains from the movie "Avatar" and visit other famous spots. • Have a bird's eye view while taking the cable car up Tianzi Mountain. • Feel the thrill of riding a glass elevator down the side of the mountain. • Escape from your busy routine to see the most beautiful natural scenery and seek advanture here. • Get up close and personal with the mountains from the movie "Avatar" and visit other famous spots. The Design of the Day Trip Mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. Free hotel pick-up and drop-off. No more worries about the difficult traffic system in Zhangjiajie. A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! VIP treatment with No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. The Design of the Day Trip • Mini-groups of 6 participants make full use of your day with this well-designed itinerary to discover the beauty. • Free hotel pick-up and drop-off. No more worries about the difficult traffic system in Zhangjiajie. • A local English-speaking guide will show you around, professional and passionate about making sure you have a wonderful day! • VIP treatment with No shopping, no tricks and no time-wasting during the tour. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 - 9:00Hotel Pickup The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby (or at the appointed location) at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). Professional tour guide and our vehicle Good to Know: We offer free hotel pick-up and drop-off services if your hotel/airbnb/accommodation is Zhangjiajie downtown or Zhangjiajie Train Station. For further distances, there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Please provide your hotel information on the booking form. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 9:00 – 10:00Drive to Zhangjiajie National Forest Park After picking up all the group members we will head to our destination – Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. It will take 50-60 minites from downtown to the park by car. The guide will introduce the park on the way, and tell you something you are interested of Zhangjiajie, like food, lifestyle, etc. The gate of Wulingyuan Scenic Area Zhangjiajie National Forest Park 10:00 –12:00Take cable car to the Tianzi Mountain and visit on the top First, we will take a cable car (included) to the top of Tianzi Mountain. It is with 692 meters' difference in elevation, the aerial tramway is 2,084 meters in length and will be running six minutes and twenty-two seconds for a single trip during which you can get a wonderful bird's eye view of the Tianzi Mountain. Cable car In the cable car Arrival at Tianzi Mountain, and you will see large areas of grotesque peaks thrusting up. It is called 'the Monarch of the Peak Forest'. At the top of the mountain, visitors can see the full extent of the Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Walking along the steps spectacular views unfold in front of you from different angles. Beautiful scenes of the mountain greet visitors in different seasons. Tianzi Mountain was formed by sedimentary rocks 318 million years ago. Those rocks, eroded by the water and wind, slowly turned into quartz stones, which formed those amazing peaks in the scenic area. Tianzi Mountain Tianzi Mountain Our guests in Tianzi Mountain 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time Please note that our tour does not include lunch fee. After visiting Tianzi Mountain, you can have a lunch at the top of the mountain. There are some local restaurants and fast food here. The price is a little higher than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts. McDonald's on the mountain 13:00 – 15:30Visit Avatar Hallelujah Mountains in Yuanjiajie In the afternoon, ride a public shuttle bus (included) to Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, whose mountains are the prototype of Avatar's Hallelujah Mountain. Yuanjiajie, located in the north of Zhangjiejie National Forest Park, is a mountain platform with an area of about 1,200 hectares and an average altitude of 1,074 meters. Scenes in Avatar come to mind when the peaks are caught in the right light or when the early morning mountain mist rolls in around them. "Hallelujah Mountain" Back Garden Our guests in Yuanjia Village Our guests in Yuanjiajie Good to Know: This area is the most visited area due to its fame. It takes about 1 hour to walk the tourist trails, before you take the shuttle bus for the cable car down the mountain. There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. Peaks in Yuanjiajie Taking photos of Hallelujah Mountain 15:30–17:00Take Bailong Elevator Down Then Back to Your Hotel Bailong Elevator (included) is the highest, fastest, fully exposed outdoor double-decker sightseeing elevator with the largest capacity in the world. The elevator is made of glass and transparent, you can also see the Gardens in Air during the ride. It runs only 2 minutes, but at peak times you might need to queue one or two hours in line to get onboard. If you are interested in taking the elevator, tell your guide in advance, so that he/she can arrange beforehand to avoid the long queues. Bailong Elevator After going down from the mountain, our trip comes to an end. You will be dropped off at your hotel. Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 - 9:00Hotel Pickup The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby (or at the appointed location) at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). Professional tour guide and our vehicle Good to Know: We offer free hotel pick-up and drop-off services if your hotel/airbnb/accommodation is Zhangjiajie downtown or Zhangjiajie Train Station. For further distances, there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Please provide your hotel information on the booking form. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 9:00 – 10:00Drive to Zhangjiajie National Forest Park After picking up all the group members we will head to our destination – Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. It will take 50-60 minites from downtown to the park by car. The guide will introduce the park on the way, and tell you something you are interested of Zhangjiajie, like food, lifestyle, etc. The gate of Wulingyuan Scenic Area Zhangjiajie National Forest Park 10:00 –12:00Take cable car to the Tianzi Mountain and visit on the top First, we will take a cable car (included) to the top of Tianzi Mountain. It is with 692 meters' difference in elevation, the aerial tramway is 2,084 meters in length and will be running six minutes and twenty-two seconds for a single trip during which you can get a wonderful bird's eye view of the Tianzi Mountain. Cable car In the cable car Arrival at Tianzi Mountain, and you will see large areas of grotesque peaks thrusting up. It is called 'the Monarch of the Peak Forest'. At the top of the mountain, visitors can see the full extent of the Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Walking along the steps spectacular views unfold in front of you from different angles. Beautiful scenes of the mountain greet visitors in different seasons. Tianzi Mountain was formed by sedimentary rocks 318 million years ago. Those rocks, eroded by the water and wind, slowly turned into quartz stones, which formed those amazing peaks in the scenic area. Tianzi Mountain Tianzi Mountain Our guests in Tianzi Mountain 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time Please note that our tour does not include lunch fee. After visiting Tianzi Mountain, you can have a lunch at the top of the mountain. There are some local restaurants and fast food here. The price is a little higher than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts. McDonald's on the mountain 13:00 – 15:30Visit Avatar Hallelujah Mountains in Yuanjiajie In the afternoon, ride a public shuttle bus (included) to Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, whose mountains are the prototype of Avatar's Hallelujah Mountain. Yuanjiajie, located in the north of Zhangjiejie National Forest Park, is a mountain platform with an area of about 1,200 hectares and an average altitude of 1,074 meters. Scenes in Avatar come to mind when the peaks are caught in the right light or when the early morning mountain mist rolls in around them. "Hallelujah Mountain" Back Garden Our guests in Yuanjia Village Our guests in Yuanjiajie Good to Know: This area is the most visited area due to its fame. It takes about 1 hour to walk the tourist trails, before you take the shuttle bus for the cable car down the mountain. There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. Peaks in Yuanjiajie Taking photos of Hallelujah Mountain 15:30–17:00Take Bailong Elevator Down Then Back to Your Hotel Bailong Elevator (included) is the highest, fastest, fully exposed outdoor double-decker sightseeing elevator with the largest capacity in the world. The elevator is made of glass and transparent, you can also see the Gardens in Air during the ride. It runs only 2 minutes, but at peak times you might need to queue one or two hours in line to get onboard. If you are interested in taking the elevator, tell your guide in advance, so that he/she can arrange beforehand to avoid the long queues. Bailong Elevator After going down from the mountain, our trip comes to an end. You will be dropped off at your hotel. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide at night before the tour day via hotel, he/she will tell you the exact pick-up time for the next day's trip. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 - 9:00Hotel Pickup The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby (or at the appointed location) at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). Professional tour guide and our vehicle Good to Know: We offer free hotel pick-up and drop-off services if your hotel/airbnb/accommodation is Zhangjiajie downtown or Zhangjiajie Train Station. For further distances, there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Please provide your hotel information on the booking form. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 8:30 - 9:00Hotel Pickup The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby (or at the appointed location) at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). Professional tour guide and our vehicle Good to Know: We offer free hotel pick-up and drop-off services if your hotel/airbnb/accommodation is Zhangjiajie downtown or Zhangjiajie Train Station. For further distances, there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Please provide your hotel information on the booking form. Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. The guide will be waiting in your hotel lobby (or at the appointed location) at the appointed time (usually around 9 AM). Professional tour guide and our vehicle • We offer free hotel pick-up and drop-off services if your hotel/airbnb/accommodation is Zhangjiajie downtown or Zhangjiajie Train Station. For further distances, there might be an extra cost for the transfer. Please provide your hotel information on the booking form. • Our drivers are licensed and experienced with at least 5 years of driving experience to make sure you have a safe trip, while our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 9:00 – 10:00Drive to Zhangjiajie National Forest Park After picking up all the group members we will head to our destination – Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. It will take 50-60 minites from downtown to the park by car. The guide will introduce the park on the way, and tell you something you are interested of Zhangjiajie, like food, lifestyle, etc. The gate of Wulingyuan Scenic Area Zhangjiajie National Forest Park 9:00 – 10:00Drive to Zhangjiajie National Forest Park After picking up all the group members we will head to our destination – Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. It will take 50-60 minites from downtown to the park by car. The guide will introduce the park on the way, and tell you something you are interested of Zhangjiajie, like food, lifestyle, etc. The gate of Wulingyuan Scenic Area Zhangjiajie National Forest Park After picking up all the group members we will head to our destination – Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. It will take 50-60 minites from downtown to the park by car. The guide will introduce the park on the way, and tell you something you are interested of Zhangjiajie, like food, lifestyle, etc. The gate of Wulingyuan Scenic Area Zhangjiajie National Forest Park 10:00 –12:00Take cable car to the Tianzi Mountain and visit on the top First, we will take a cable car (included) to the top of Tianzi Mountain. It is with 692 meters' difference in elevation, the aerial tramway is 2,084 meters in length and will be running six minutes and twenty-two seconds for a single trip during which you can get a wonderful bird's eye view of the Tianzi Mountain. Cable car In the cable car Arrival at Tianzi Mountain, and you will see large areas of grotesque peaks thrusting up. It is called 'the Monarch of the Peak Forest'. At the top of the mountain, visitors can see the full extent of the Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Walking along the steps spectacular views unfold in front of you from different angles. Beautiful scenes of the mountain greet visitors in different seasons. Tianzi Mountain was formed by sedimentary rocks 318 million years ago. Those rocks, eroded by the water and wind, slowly turned into quartz stones, which formed those amazing peaks in the scenic area. Tianzi Mountain Tianzi Mountain Our guests in Tianzi Mountain 10:00 –12:00Take cable car to the Tianzi Mountain and visit on the top First, we will take a cable car (included) to the top of Tianzi Mountain. It is with 692 meters' difference in elevation, the aerial tramway is 2,084 meters in length and will be running six minutes and twenty-two seconds for a single trip during which you can get a wonderful bird's eye view of the Tianzi Mountain. Cable car In the cable car Arrival at Tianzi Mountain, and you will see large areas of grotesque peaks thrusting up. It is called 'the Monarch of the Peak Forest'. At the top of the mountain, visitors can see the full extent of the Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Walking along the steps spectacular views unfold in front of you from different angles. Beautiful scenes of the mountain greet visitors in different seasons. Tianzi Mountain was formed by sedimentary rocks 318 million years ago. Those rocks, eroded by the water and wind, slowly turned into quartz stones, which formed those amazing peaks in the scenic area. Tianzi Mountain Tianzi Mountain Our guests in Tianzi Mountain First, we will take a cable car (included) to the top of Tianzi Mountain. It is with 692 meters' difference in elevation, the aerial tramway is 2,084 meters in length and will be running six minutes and twenty-two seconds for a single trip during which you can get a wonderful bird's eye view of the Tianzi Mountain. Arrival at Tianzi Mountain, and you will see large areas of grotesque peaks thrusting up. It is called 'the Monarch of the Peak Forest'. At the top of the mountain, visitors can see the full extent of the Wulingyuan Scenic Area. Walking along the steps spectacular views unfold in front of you from different angles. Beautiful scenes of the mountain greet visitors in different seasons. Tianzi Mountain was formed by sedimentary rocks 318 million years ago. Those rocks, eroded by the water and wind, slowly turned into quartz stones, which formed those amazing peaks in the scenic area. Our guests in Tianzi Mountain 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time Please note that our tour does not include lunch fee. After visiting Tianzi Mountain, you can have a lunch at the top of the mountain. There are some local restaurants and fast food here. The price is a little higher than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts. McDonald's on the mountain 12:00 – 13:00Lunch Time Please note that our tour does not include lunch fee. After visiting Tianzi Mountain, you can have a lunch at the top of the mountain. There are some local restaurants and fast food here. The price is a little higher than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts. McDonald's on the mountain Please note that our tour does not include lunch fee. After visiting Tianzi Mountain, you can have a lunch at the top of the mountain. There are some local restaurants and fast food here. The price is a little higher than the restaurant at downtown, so we also suggest you can bring some food with you before the tour starts. McDonald's on the mountain 13:00 – 15:30Visit Avatar Hallelujah Mountains in Yuanjiajie In the afternoon, ride a public shuttle bus (included) to Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, whose mountains are the prototype of Avatar's Hallelujah Mountain. Yuanjiajie, located in the north of Zhangjiejie National Forest Park, is a mountain platform with an area of about 1,200 hectares and an average altitude of 1,074 meters. Scenes in Avatar come to mind when the peaks are caught in the right light or when the early morning mountain mist rolls in around them. "Hallelujah Mountain" Back Garden Our guests in Yuanjia Village Our guests in Yuanjiajie Good to Know: This area is the most visited area due to its fame. It takes about 1 hour to walk the tourist trails, before you take the shuttle bus for the cable car down the mountain. There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. Peaks in Yuanjiajie Taking photos of Hallelujah Mountain 13:00 – 15:30Visit Avatar Hallelujah Mountains in Yuanjiajie In the afternoon, ride a public shuttle bus (included) to Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, whose mountains are the prototype of Avatar's Hallelujah Mountain. Yuanjiajie, located in the north of Zhangjiejie National Forest Park, is a mountain platform with an area of about 1,200 hectares and an average altitude of 1,074 meters. Scenes in Avatar come to mind when the peaks are caught in the right light or when the early morning mountain mist rolls in around them. "Hallelujah Mountain" Back Garden Our guests in Yuanjia Village Our guests in Yuanjiajie Good to Know: This area is the most visited area due to its fame. It takes about 1 hour to walk the tourist trails, before you take the shuttle bus for the cable car down the mountain. There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. Peaks in Yuanjiajie Taking photos of Hallelujah Mountain In the afternoon, ride a public shuttle bus (included) to Yuanjiajie Scenic Area, whose mountains are the prototype of Avatar's Hallelujah Mountain. Yuanjiajie, located in the north of Zhangjiejie National Forest Park, is a mountain platform with an area of about 1,200 hectares and an average altitude of 1,074 meters. Scenes in Avatar come to mind when the peaks are caught in the right light or when the early morning mountain mist rolls in around them. "Hallelujah Mountain" Our guests in Yuanjia Village Our guests in Yuanjiajie • This area is the most visited area due to its fame. It takes about 1 hour to walk the tourist trails, before you take the shuttle bus for the cable car down the mountain. • There are many cliffs and mountain roads here, so please pay attention to your safety. • Monkeys in some areas of Yuanjiajie, please do not provoke them to avoid being attacked. Taking photos of Hallelujah Mountain 15:30–17:00Take Bailong Elevator Down Then Back to Your Hotel Bailong Elevator (included) is the highest, fastest, fully exposed outdoor double-decker sightseeing elevator with the largest capacity in the world. The elevator is made of glass and transparent, you can also see the Gardens in Air during the ride. It runs only 2 minutes, but at peak times you might need to queue one or two hours in line to get onboard. If you are interested in taking the elevator, tell your guide in advance, so that he/she can arrange beforehand to avoid the long queues. Bailong Elevator After going down from the mountain, our trip comes to an end. You will be dropped off at your hotel. 15:30–17:00Take Bailong Elevator Down Then Back to Your Hotel Bailong Elevator (included) is the highest, fastest, fully exposed outdoor double-decker sightseeing elevator with the largest capacity in the world. The elevator is made of glass and transparent, you can also see the Gardens in Air during the ride. It runs only 2 minutes, but at peak times you might need to queue one or two hours in line to get onboard. If you are interested in taking the elevator, tell your guide in advance, so that he/she can arrange beforehand to avoid the long queues. Bailong Elevator After going down from the mountain, our trip comes to an end. You will be dropped off at your hotel. Bailong Elevator (included) is the highest, fastest, fully exposed outdoor double-decker sightseeing elevator with the largest capacity in the world. The elevator is made of glass and transparent, you can also see the Gardens in Air during the ride. It runs only 2 minutes, but at peak times you might need to queue one or two hours in line to get onboard. If you are interested in taking the elevator, tell your guide in advance, so that he/she can arrange beforehand to avoid the long queues. After going down from the mountain, our trip comes to an end. You will be dropped off at your hotel. Price Include: Admission to Zhangjiajie National Park, including cable car, shuttle bus and Bailong elevator. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to Zhangjiajie National Park, including cable car, shuttle bus and Bailong elevator. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to Zhangjiajie National Park, including cable car, shuttle bus and Bailong elevator. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Admission to Zhangjiajie National Park, including cable car, shuttle bus and Bailong elevator. • Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. • English-speaking expert local guide. • Bottled water. • Lunch. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Zhangjiajie. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Zhangjiajie What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Zhangjiajie. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Zhangjiajie What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Zhangjiajie. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Zhangjiajie The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be in the downtown area of Zhangjiajie. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Or if you want to book a transfer service with us, please do contact us. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Zhangjiajie What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 179 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 179 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 179 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20