ID: 6a50033b2fa594e7
Title: 3-Hour Shanghai Breakfast Street Food Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/shanghai/3-hour-old-shanghai-breakfast-food-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ One of the best ways to know Shanghai is by tasting local authentic food. Shanghai cuisine is the representative of Jiangnan cuisine, with sweetness as its main feature. Shanghai breakfast, can be summed up in its variety and delicaty, the most typical four are "Salty or sweet pancakes, Fried dough sticks, soybean milk and Glutinous rice balls." Shanghai people have been attached to them for a long time, and even exceeded the meaning of breakfast itself, which has become a memory of the taste of Shanghai. Join us to this breakfast food tour with local tour guide to find Shanghai flavours in hidden eateries and communities and visit a local wet market to feel the lifestyle of the people! Tour Highlights Taste Shanghai most popular breakfast items and watch them made to order. Explore the old streets and community to see how locals live their lives here. Get into a wet market to see people bargaining and buying daily ingredients. English-speaking foodie guide will show you around and tell you Shanghai's history and food culture. The Design of the Day Trip Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Shanghai, know the city well and totally a big foodie. Location: Get off the beaten path to find the food where is near an old community and only locals know. Trippest Shanghai Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tou guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. 9:00 - 10:00 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Tilanqiao Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! While visiting 4-5 food stops, learn about the families that have been making their specialties for generations and get to know the foods that locals love and why they became so popular. We will taste fried beef pancakes, savory Chinese crepes (called Jianbing in China), Chinese doughnut sticks (Youtiao), soy milk ( Doujiang) with sweet or salty flavour in the hidden lanes and watch the locals how to prepare them. Pancakes Making Youtiao Soup dumplings (Xiaolongbao) Walk through some of Shanghai's oldest residential communities to see how locals live their lives every day and learn about this interesting and historic area from your local guide. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Shanghai. Old street The gate of old house A popular breskfast shop Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 10:00 – 11:00 AMVisit a Local Market Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Dry goods in the market Fresh vegetables Price Include: Food and drink. English-speaking local guide service. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. One of the best ways to know Shanghai is by tasting local authentic food. Shanghai cuisine is the representative of Jiangnan cuisine, with sweetness as its main feature. Shanghai breakfast, can be summed up in its variety and delicaty, the most typical four are "Salty or sweet pancakes, Fried dough sticks, soybean milk and Glutinous rice balls." Shanghai people have been attached to them for a long time, and even exceeded the meaning of breakfast itself, which has become a memory of the taste of Shanghai. Join us to this breakfast food tour with local tour guide to find Shanghai flavours in hidden eateries and communities and visit a local wet market to feel the lifestyle of the people! One of the best ways to know Shanghai is by tasting local authentic food. Shanghai cuisine is the representative of Jiangnan cuisine, with sweetness as its main feature. Shanghai breakfast, can be summed up in its variety and delicaty, the most typical four are "Salty or sweet pancakes, Fried dough sticks, soybean milk and Glutinous rice balls." Shanghai people have been attached to them for a long time, and even exceeded the meaning of breakfast itself, which has become a memory of the taste of Shanghai. Join us to this breakfast food tour with local tour guide to find Shanghai flavours in hidden eateries and communities and visit a local wet market to feel the lifestyle of the people! Tour Highlights Taste Shanghai most popular breakfast items and watch them made to order. Explore the old streets and community to see how locals live their lives here. Get into a wet market to see people bargaining and buying daily ingredients. English-speaking foodie guide will show you around and tell you Shanghai's history and food culture. • Taste Shanghai most popular breakfast items and watch them made to order. • Explore the old streets and community to see how locals live their lives here. • Get into a wet market to see people bargaining and buying daily ingredients. • English-speaking foodie guide will show you around and tell you Shanghai's history and food culture. The Design of the Day Trip Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Shanghai, know the city well and totally a big foodie. Location: Get off the beaten path to find the food where is near an old community and only locals know. Trippest Shanghai Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a enjoyable travel experience. The Design of the Day Trip • Foodie guide: Our guides are grew up in Shanghai, know the city well and totally a big foodie. • Location: Get off the beaten path to find the food where is near an old community and only locals know. • Trippest Shanghai Office: English-speaking backup support — We are very happy to hear your voice • Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tou guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. 9:00 - 10:00 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Tilanqiao Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! While visiting 4-5 food stops, learn about the families that have been making their specialties for generations and get to know the foods that locals love and why they became so popular. We will taste fried beef pancakes, savory Chinese crepes (called Jianbing in China), Chinese doughnut sticks (Youtiao), soy milk ( Doujiang) with sweet or salty flavour in the hidden lanes and watch the locals how to prepare them. Pancakes Making Youtiao Soup dumplings (Xiaolongbao) Walk through some of Shanghai's oldest residential communities to see how locals live their lives every day and learn about this interesting and historic area from your local guide. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Shanghai. Old street The gate of old house A popular breskfast shop Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 10:00 – 11:00 AMVisit a Local Market Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Dry goods in the market Fresh vegetables Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tou guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. 9:00 - 10:00 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Tilanqiao Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! While visiting 4-5 food stops, learn about the families that have been making their specialties for generations and get to know the foods that locals love and why they became so popular. We will taste fried beef pancakes, savory Chinese crepes (called Jianbing in China), Chinese doughnut sticks (Youtiao), soy milk ( Doujiang) with sweet or salty flavour in the hidden lanes and watch the locals how to prepare them. Pancakes Making Youtiao Soup dumplings (Xiaolongbao) Walk through some of Shanghai's oldest residential communities to see how locals live their lives every day and learn about this interesting and historic area from your local guide. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Shanghai. Old street The gate of old house A popular breskfast shop Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 10:00 – 11:00 AMVisit a Local Market Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Dry goods in the market Fresh vegetables The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tou guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. The day before your tour date You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tou guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. You'll receive a confirmation email about the meeting time, full details and directions of the meeting place after your booking. Our tou guide will call your hotel or message you to double confirm tour details one day before your tour date for the next day's experience. Please arrive at the meeting point ON TIME according to the meeting time and location notified by the tour guide. 9:00 - 10:00 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Tilanqiao Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! While visiting 4-5 food stops, learn about the families that have been making their specialties for generations and get to know the foods that locals love and why they became so popular. We will taste fried beef pancakes, savory Chinese crepes (called Jianbing in China), Chinese doughnut sticks (Youtiao), soy milk ( Doujiang) with sweet or salty flavour in the hidden lanes and watch the locals how to prepare them. Pancakes Making Youtiao Soup dumplings (Xiaolongbao) Walk through some of Shanghai's oldest residential communities to see how locals live their lives every day and learn about this interesting and historic area from your local guide. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Shanghai. Old street The gate of old house A popular breskfast shop Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 9:00 - 10:00 AMWalk Through The Street For Breakfast The tour will start at 9:00AM at Tilanqiao Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! While visiting 4-5 food stops, learn about the families that have been making their specialties for generations and get to know the foods that locals love and why they became so popular. We will taste fried beef pancakes, savory Chinese crepes (called Jianbing in China), Chinese doughnut sticks (Youtiao), soy milk ( Doujiang) with sweet or salty flavour in the hidden lanes and watch the locals how to prepare them. Pancakes Making Youtiao Soup dumplings (Xiaolongbao) Walk through some of Shanghai's oldest residential communities to see how locals live their lives every day and learn about this interesting and historic area from your local guide. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Shanghai. Old street The gate of old house A popular breskfast shop Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. Good to Know: Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. The tour will start at 9:00AM at Tilanqiao Subway Station. Firstly, we will explore local streets by foot as we try a lot of different dishes that make breakfast the most important meal of the day in China! While visiting 4-5 food stops, learn about the families that have been making their specialties for generations and get to know the foods that locals love and why they became so popular. We will taste fried beef pancakes, savory Chinese crepes (called Jianbing in China), Chinese doughnut sticks (Youtiao), soy milk ( Doujiang) with sweet or salty flavour in the hidden lanes and watch the locals how to prepare them. Soup dumplings (Xiaolongbao) Walk through some of Shanghai's oldest residential communities to see how locals live their lives every day and learn about this interesting and historic area from your local guide. Your English-speaking tour guide will tell you some stories of the quaint neighborhoods and streets of Old-Shanghai. The gate of old house A popular breskfast shop Note: This tour is vegetarian friendly, please note us your any dietary requirements at the time of booking. • Our tour routes change regularly depending on vendor opening hours and tour schedules, but we promise it will be awesome as well. • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 10:00 – 11:00 AMVisit a Local Market Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Dry goods in the market Fresh vegetables 10:00 – 11:00 AMVisit a Local Market Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Dry goods in the market Fresh vegetables Go on the tour, we will visit a local wet market to see people buying fresh produce, meat, and seafood and see what's in season. Also you will see people how bargain in China market, it will be interesting. After that, our tour will end. Your guide would love to show you the best ways to get back to your hotel or other places you are interested in visiting. Dry goods in the market Price Include: Food and drink. English-speaking local guide service. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. Price Include: Food and drink. English-speaking local guide service. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. Price Include: Food and drink. English-speaking local guide service. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off services. Personal expenses. • Food and drink. • English-speaking local guide service. • Hotel pickup and drop-off services. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 66 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 66 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 66 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20