ID: 31612dd94ef34ae4
Title: China Family Tours 2025/2026: Personalized and Memorable
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tour/family-tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China is a fantastic destination for family vacations, offering rich culture, diverse landscapes, and activities for all ages in a modern, safe environment. Since 1998, we've specialized in creating personalized tours across China, ensuring: Family-Friendly Guides: Your guides are experts in Chinese culture and adept at navigating busy sites like the Terracotta Warriors Museum. They ensure your family enjoys attractions up close without the hassle and are great with kids. Photography Assistance: Your guides double as excellent photographers, capturing beautiful family moments you'll cherish. Personalized Itineraries: Discover both ancient and modern China with activities tailored for everyone in your family. Safety and Convenience: We manage all logistics, from hotel bookings to emergency support, offering quick responses via WhatsApp, calls, WeChat, or email, minimizing any uncertainties during your trip. Top Private Family Tours: 8-14 Days Unlike conventional itineraries, we have specially designed unique cultural and outdoor activities for children. China Family Classic Tour 9-Day Beijing - Xian - Shanghai View More China Natural Wonders Family 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Zhangjiajie - Guilin - Shanghai View More Family Happiness 11-Day Beijing - Xi'an - Guilin - Shanghai View More Ice and Snow Family Tour 8-Day Beijing and Harbin Winter Tour View More Discover the Ancient China and the Unique Landscape 11-Day Hong Kong - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour 14-Day Beijing- Xian -Chengdu - Yangtze River -Shanghai View More Cute Pandas and Stunning Avatar Mountain 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Chengdu - Zhangjiajie -Shanghai View More Chinese Kung Fu Tour with Shaolin Temple 10-Day Beijing - Luoyang - Xian - Shanghai View More China is a fantastic destination for family vacations, offering rich culture, diverse landscapes, and activities for all ages in a modern, safe environment. Since 1998, we've specialized in creating personalized tours across China, ensuring: • Family-Friendly Guides: Your guides are experts in Chinese culture and adept at navigating busy sites like the Terracotta Warriors Museum. They ensure your family enjoys attractions up close without the hassle and are great with kids. • Photography Assistance: Your guides double as excellent photographers, capturing beautiful family moments you'll cherish. • Personalized Itineraries: Discover both ancient and modern China with activities tailored for everyone in your family. • Safety and Convenience: We manage all logistics, from hotel bookings to emergency support, offering quick responses via WhatsApp, calls, WeChat, or email, minimizing any uncertainties during your trip. Top Private Family Tours: 8-14 Days Unlike conventional itineraries, we have specially designed unique cultural and outdoor activities for children. China Family Classic Tour 9-Day Beijing - Xian - Shanghai View More China Natural Wonders Family 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Zhangjiajie - Guilin - Shanghai View More Family Happiness 11-Day Beijing - Xi'an - Guilin - Shanghai View More Ice and Snow Family Tour 8-Day Beijing and Harbin Winter Tour View More China Family Classic Tour 9-Day Beijing - Xian - Shanghai View More China Family Classic Tour 9-Day Beijing - Xian - Shanghai View More China Natural Wonders Family 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Zhangjiajie - Guilin - Shanghai View More China Natural Wonders Family 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Zhangjiajie - Guilin - Shanghai View More Family Happiness 11-Day Beijing - Xi'an - Guilin - Shanghai View More 11-Day Beijing - Xi'an - Guilin - Shanghai View More Ice and Snow Family Tour 8-Day Beijing and Harbin Winter Tour View More Ice and Snow Family Tour 8-Day Beijing and Harbin Winter Tour View More Discover the Ancient China and the Unique Landscape 11-Day Hong Kong - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour 14-Day Beijing- Xian -Chengdu - Yangtze River -Shanghai View More Cute Pandas and Stunning Avatar Mountain 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Chengdu - Zhangjiajie -Shanghai View More Chinese Kung Fu Tour with Shaolin Temple 10-Day Beijing - Luoyang - Xian - Shanghai View More Discover the Ancient China and the Unique Landscape 11-Day Hong Kong - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More Discover the Ancient China and the Unique Landscape 11-Day Hong Kong - Guilin - Xian - Beijing View More Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour 14-Day Beijing- Xian -Chengdu - Yangtze River -Shanghai View More Yangtze River Cruise and Panda Family Tour 14-Day Beijing- Xian -Chengdu - Yangtze River -Shanghai View More Cute Pandas and Stunning Avatar Mountain 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Chengdu - Zhangjiajie -Shanghai View More Cute Pandas and Stunning Avatar Mountain 14-Day Beijing - Xian - Chengdu - Zhangjiajie -Shanghai View More Chinese Kung Fu Tour with Shaolin Temple 10-Day Beijing - Luoyang - Xian - Shanghai View More Chinese Kung Fu Tour with Shaolin Temple 10-Day Beijing - Luoyang - Xian - Shanghai View More Top Private Family Tours: 2 Weeks+ These itineraries provide a deeper experience and stronger connection with the locals. Each itinerary can be customized to meet your needs perfectly. 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 16-Day Japan and China Discovery Tour Tokyo, Hakone, Kyoto, Osaka, Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai View More Top Private Family Tours: 2 Weeks+ These itineraries provide a deeper experience and stronger connection with the locals. Each itinerary can be customized to meet your needs perfectly. 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 16-Day Japan and China Discovery Tour Tokyo, Hakone, Kyoto, Osaka, Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai View More 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Lhasa, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, Guilin, and Shanghai 16-Day Japan and China Discovery Tour Tokyo, Hakone, Kyoto, Osaka, Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai View More 16-Day Japan and China Discovery Tour Tokyo, Hakone, Kyoto, Osaka, Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai View More Tokyo, Hakone, Kyoto, Osaka, Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Popular China Destinations Here are the most popular kid-friendly destinations for a China tour picked by 90% of our family clients. Click for more information about each destination and the tours there. Beijing Xi'an Shanghai Chengdu Zhangjiajie Guilin Hong Kong Yunnan Popular China Destinations Here are the most popular kid-friendly destinations for a China tour picked by 90% of our family clients. Click for more information about each destination and the tours there. Beijing Xi'an Shanghai Chengdu Zhangjiajie Guilin Hong Kong Yunnan FAQs about Your China Trip with Kids Expand All 1. Is Chinese food kid-friendly for my children? We believe your kids will love Chinese food. Exploring the local cuisine is a key part of experiencing Chinese culture. Chinese cuisine offers a wide variety of dishes like peking duck, dumplings, noodles, and hot pots. There is a wide variety of flavors, including spicy, mild, sweet and sour, and more. There are also Western food, fast food, vegetarian food, and sea food. It is almost certain that there will be dishes your children like to eat. If your kids have specific preferences, just let us know, and we'll make sure to find the perfect options for your family. 2. Could you arrange a family room or connecting rooms so we can easily look after the children? To ensure you enjoy good rest during holiday, we carefully select family-friendly hotels, taking into consideration factors like Trip Advisor reviews, our previous customer feedback, location, availability of swimming pool and inter-connecting rooms, etc. We would reserve a spacious (accommodating two adults and two children) and non-smoking room with a great location and beautiful views. 3. How are children charged for the tour? Babies under two years old are free. For children aged 2-11, the price is approximately 70% of the adult rate, and children over 11 are charged the same as adults. Our travel consultant will provide a more accurate quote based on your hotel selection, travel dates, activities, etc. Contact us for a detailed itinerary and price. FAQs about Your China Trip with Kids Expand All 1. Is Chinese food kid-friendly for my children? We believe your kids will love Chinese food. Exploring the local cuisine is a key part of experiencing Chinese culture. Chinese cuisine offers a wide variety of dishes like peking duck, dumplings, noodles, and hot pots. There is a wide variety of flavors, including spicy, mild, sweet and sour, and more. There are also Western food, fast food, vegetarian food, and sea food. It is almost certain that there will be dishes your children like to eat. If your kids have specific preferences, just let us know, and we'll make sure to find the perfect options for your family. 2. Could you arrange a family room or connecting rooms so we can easily look after the children? To ensure you enjoy good rest during holiday, we carefully select family-friendly hotels, taking into consideration factors like Trip Advisor reviews, our previous customer feedback, location, availability of swimming pool and inter-connecting rooms, etc. We would reserve a spacious (accommodating two adults and two children) and non-smoking room with a great location and beautiful views. 3. How are children charged for the tour? Babies under two years old are free. For children aged 2-11, the price is approximately 70% of the adult rate, and children over 11 are charged the same as adults. Our travel consultant will provide a more accurate quote based on your hotel selection, travel dates, activities, etc. Contact us for a detailed itinerary and price. 1. Is Chinese food kid-friendly for my children? We believe your kids will love Chinese food. Exploring the local cuisine is a key part of experiencing Chinese culture. Chinese cuisine offers a wide variety of dishes like peking duck, dumplings, noodles, and hot pots. There is a wide variety of flavors, including spicy, mild, sweet and sour, and more. There are also Western food, fast food, vegetarian food, and sea food. It is almost certain that there will be dishes your children like to eat. If your kids have specific preferences, just let us know, and we'll make sure to find the perfect options for your family. We believe your kids will love Chinese food. Exploring the local cuisine is a key part of experiencing Chinese culture. Chinese cuisine offers a wide variety of dishes like peking duck, dumplings, noodles, and hot pots. There is a wide variety of flavors, including spicy, mild, sweet and sour, and more. There are also Western food, fast food, vegetarian food, and sea food. It is almost certain that there will be dishes your children like to eat. If your kids have specific preferences, just let us know, and we'll make sure to find the perfect options for your family. 2. Could you arrange a family room or connecting rooms so we can easily look after the children? To ensure you enjoy good rest during holiday, we carefully select family-friendly hotels, taking into consideration factors like Trip Advisor reviews, our previous customer feedback, location, availability of swimming pool and inter-connecting rooms, etc. We would reserve a spacious (accommodating two adults and two children) and non-smoking room with a great location and beautiful views. To ensure you enjoy good rest during holiday, we carefully select family-friendly hotels, taking into consideration factors like Trip Advisor reviews, our previous customer feedback, location, availability of swimming pool and inter-connecting rooms, etc. We would reserve a spacious (accommodating two adults and two children) and non-smoking room with a great location and beautiful views. 3. How are children charged for the tour? Babies under two years old are free. For children aged 2-11, the price is approximately 70% of the adult rate, and children over 11 are charged the same as adults. Our travel consultant will provide a more accurate quote based on your hotel selection, travel dates, activities, etc. Contact us for a detailed itinerary and price. Babies under two years old are free. For children aged 2-11, the price is approximately 70% of the adult rate, and children over 11 are charged the same as adults. Our travel consultant will provide a more accurate quote based on your hotel selection, travel dates, activities, etc. Contact us for a detailed itinerary and price.