ID: 368a763ede4e092f
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-chengdu-and-jiuzhaigou.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-07-28T00:00:00
================================================================================

Chengdu is the hometown of giant pandas and an important birthplace of the ancient Shu civilization. It's also famous for various snacks and laid-back lifestyles. Jiuzhaigou, a 2½-hour bullet train from Chengdu, is the "Fairyland on Earth" of the East. There are two main highlights: Jiuzhaigou Scenic Area with colorful and crystal alpine lakes, and the terraced, rainbow-like pools of Huanglong National Park. This article aims to assist you in planning an unforgettable trip to Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou. • How long to spend • Transportation • Best Times • Where to Stay How Many Days Are Needed? A trip to Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou usually takes 3–6 days with different arrangements. How Many Days Are Needed in Chengdu? Chengdu takes 1–3 days. With 1 day, you can focus on panda and food, the most highlights of Chengdu. Recommend Chengdu Panda Base, and Wide and Narrow Alleys or Jinli Ancient Street for good eats and photos. With 2 days, explore Chengdu's lifestyle, history, culture or shopping, such as the popular Chunxi Road (IFS climbing panda), People's Park, Sanxingdui Museum, Shu Feng Ya Yun for a Sichuan Opera Show with Face Changing. With 3 days, take a day trip to Leshan Giant Buddha, Dujiangyan, or Mount Emei. See Giant Pandas in Chengdu How Many Days Are Needed in Jiuzhaigou? Jiuzhaigou takes 1–3 days. If you are on a tight schedule, 1 full day in Jiuzhaigou is fine to see the highlights. But it's best to arrive the night before, so you can spend a full day exploring and leave by train in the evening. With 2 days, you could add a trip to Huanglong. You can follow this most time-efficient route: bullet train to Jiuzhaigou and visit Huanglong on Day 1, then spend the entire next day in Jiuzhaigou before heading back. If you plan 3 days, you can slow down and enjoy more. Spend two days in Jiuzhaigou with some hiking or a Tibetan dress photo shoot and visit places outside the park like Huanglong, Songpan, a Tibetan family home, or local handicraft workshops. A Classic 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Itinerary Suggestion • Day 1: Chengdu arrival • Day 2: Explore Chengdu's city highlights • Day 3: Visit Leshan Giant Buddha, and transfer to Emei • Day 4: Visit Mount Emei • Day 5: Bullet train to Jiuzhaigou, and visit Huanglong in the afternoon • Day 6: Spend a day in Jiuzhaigou Scenic Area • Day 7: Transfer to Chengdu and departure In the 7 days, we suggest spending 2 days in Chengdu for the most highlights, 1 day in Leshan, 1 day in Emei, and 3 days in Jiuzhaigou and Huanglong. In such an arrangement, you wouldn't miss the highlights of Chengdu and would also have a comfortable pace to tour Jiuzhaigou. Panda, food, and lifestyle are covered in your Chengdu exploration During the day in Chengdu, you'll spend the morning with the pandas (pandas are more active in the morning). In the afternoon, sip tea in People's Park, being a half-day Chengduer, and in the evening stroll through Jinli Old Street for delicious food and red-lantern night views. Try local Chengdu's spicy food Jiuzhaigou train and route planning tips: From Chengdu to Jiuzhaigou, to make the most of your time and add richness to your itinerary, we recommend taking the morning train so that you could spend the afternoon at the Huanglong Scenic Area, enjoying the beautiful travertine lake terraces. Or you could also arrange Huanglong on the departure day if you couldn't catch the morning train. Altitude Sickness: Rare in Jiuzhaigou, but More Likely in Huanglong Most visitors don't experience altitude sickness in Jiuzhaigou, but Huanglong sits at a higher elevation and has a greater risk. It's a good idea to take it slow to help your body adjust. You can also visit Jiuzhaigou first to get used to the high altitude before heading to Huanglong. If you are interested, see our 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour, or the 4-Day Immersive Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour. If you are interested, see our 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour, or the 4-Day Immersive Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour. 4-Day Immersive Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Unveil the Mysteries of Natural Beauty and Tibetan Culture 4-Day Immersive Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Unveil the Mysteries of Natural Beauty and Tibetan Culture 4-Day Immersive Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Unveil the Mysteries of Natural Beauty and Tibetan Culture How to Travel from Chengdu to Jiuzhaigou You could either take a train or fly from Chengdu to Jiuzhaigou. A bullet train is recommended. By Bullet Train (Recommended) There are frequent bullet trains from Chengdu to Jiuzhaigou, taking about 2.5 hours. Huanglong Jiuzhai Station is the closest station to Jiuzhaigou. However, tickets can be hard to get during peak season. As alternatives, you can buy tickets to Songpan or Huangshengguan stations, then we'll drive you to Jiuzhaigou, about 1½-2½ hrs. Our Jiuzhaigou tour will include the tickets and a private transfer. If you don't have much time to monitor and buy tickets and want to enjoy a hassle-free trip, just contact us. By Air (Available but not Recommended) The flight from Chengdu takes about 40 minutes. However, flying involves more procedures, takes longer overall, and flights may also be delayed or canceled due to weather. Compared with flying, train travel is just easier and cheaper. The train runs more stably with simple procedures, and costs around half the price of a flight. Best Times to Visit Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Autumn (Sep-Oct): The Best Time, Especially for Jiuzhaigou Autumn is relatively dry and cool, with comfortable weather. Temperatures range from 10-27°C (50-81°F) in Chengdu and 3-29°C (37-84°F) in Jiuzhaigou. In Chengdu, it's a quieter time with fewer crowds. From October onwards, you can enjoy golden ginkgo leaves and blooming osmanthus. Jiuzhaigou is most beautiful from Oct 20 to Nov 5, when the colorful foliage is at its best. But autumn is also the peak season here, and the entire month of October can be very crowded. Ideal Time to Avoid Large Crowds: September: Beautiful green views and not too crowded October 7–12: Right after the National Day holiday rush, with fewer tourists. November 1-5: Still the time to catch the red leaves, with smaller crowds. Ideal Time to Avoid Large Crowds: • September: Beautiful green views and not too crowded • October 7–12: Right after the National Day holiday rush, with fewer tourists. • November 1-5: Still the time to catch the red leaves, with smaller crowds. Summer (Jun-Aug): Lush, Cool Jiuzhaigou, but Hot Chengdu Summer in Chengdu can get hot, with daytime temperatures around 27-35°C (81-95°F). But Jiuzhaigou stays much cooler at 14-30°C (57-86°F), making it a great summer escape. It's the rainy season, so occasional showers may slightly affect the views in Jiuzhaigou, but the scenery is still stunning, with abundant water and spectacular waterfalls. In Chengdu, pandas may be less active outdoors due to the heat, but summer is also baby panda season, so you might get a chance to see newborn cubs. Enjoy the cool Chengdu SKP Fountains view at night However, July and August form the peak season in Chengdu. It's hot, crowded, and hotel and flight prices go up too. If you prefer more comfortable weather and fewer crowds, we recommend that you visit in June. Spring (Mar-May): Budget-Friendly Time to Travel In spring, Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou have mild temperatures. Chengdu is around 10-28°C (50-82°F), while Jiuzhaizhou is 3-25°C (37-77°F). It's also a shoulder season with fewer people, so you could enjoy cheaper flights, hotel rates, and even discounted Jiuzhaigou tickets. In Chengdu, flowers are in full bloom across the city. Jiuzhaigou enters its low-water period, so some pools may have less water, but most of the scenery still looks stunning. Jiuzhaigou in spring with peach blossom Winter (Dec-Feb): Cold, but also a Cost-Effective Time In Chengdu, winter temperature is around 3-13°C (37-55°F). But Jiuzhaigou is colder, around -5 to 10°C (23-50°F). Both areas may see snowfall, though not throughout the entire season. It is also the low season, and you'll enjoy fewer tourists and lower travel costs too. If you're looking for snowy landscapes or winter activities near Chengdu, Xiling Snow Mountain is a great option for skiing and snow fun. Jiuzhaigou in winter, while cold, you can admire frozen waterfalls and snow-capped peaks. Just make sure to dress warmly. Xiling Snow Mountain near Chengdu Where to Stay in Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Chengdu: Chunxi Road is the Top Pick Chunxi Road, with the central location, is the most recommended area to stay in Chengdu. It's easy for food, shopping, and attractions, and you can find plenty of hotels there, especially modern or international brands. Many shuttle buses to popular spots also depart from here. If you prefer boutique courtyard hotels with traditional style, Wide and Narrow Alleys and Wenshu Monastery are also convenient to stay. See our Where to Stay in Chengdu Guide for more tips and hotel picks. Jiuzhaigou: Stay near the Park Entrance or Huamei Resort The entrance area, also called Goukou or Pengfeng Village, is the place with the most hotel and dining options in Jiuzhaigou. You'll find a wide range of hotels here, from 5-star resorts to budget options. It's just a few minutes' drive, or even walking distance to Jiuzhaigou scenic area. If you prefer a more upscale stay, consider the Huamei Resort area. Most international luxury hotel brands in Jiuzhaigou gather here. It's a bit farther from the park, but shuttle buses are available to take you directly to the entrance, about 20 minutes. Accommodation tips in Jiuzhaigou: Hotels in Jiuzhaigou would not be as high-quality as those in downtown Chengdu. For the star rating of the hotel, since the 4 or 5 stars may only be equivalent to the 3 stars in Chengdu, we suggest you choose a hotel with a high star rating. Accommodation tips in Jiuzhaigou: Hotels in Jiuzhaigou would not be as high-quality as those in downtown Chengdu. For the star rating of the hotel, since the 4 or 5 stars may only be equivalent to the 3 stars in Chengdu, we suggest you choose a hotel with a high star rating. Cost for a Trip to Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Generally, the cost of a private tour for a group of 2–5 people is US$200–230 per person per day, and this price includes transportation within Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou, 4-star or 5-star hotels, attraction tickets, private transportation, and tour guides. The above is just a reference price. We will give you a more specific price according to the actual itinerary, travel time, number of travelers, hotel selection, etc. Just contact us. Popular Tours with Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou • 8-Day Chengdu,Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour • 9-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Zhangjiajie Nature Tour