ID: 3c37bffd0b97a936
Title: Jiuzhaigou: How to Visit, How to Get There, Best Times
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/jiuzhaigou/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Jiuzhaigou is famous for its sparkling lakes, spectacular waterfalls, and colorful leaves. It is inscribed on UNESCO's World Heritage List. Wondering which spots in Jiuzhaigou are worth your time and camera? Here's a quick guide to the must-visits, the photo-perfect, the best time to visit, and a few lookalikes you can safely skip. • The Highlights of Jiuzhaigou • How to Visit Jiuzhaigou • How Many Days Are Needed • Best Times to Visit • How to Get to Jiuzhaigou • Accommodation Tips • Will I Get Altitude Sickness in Jiuzhaigou? The Highlights of Jiuzhaigou Jiuzhaigou is a Y-shaped valley with three main sections: the Zechawa (left line), Rize (right line), and Shuzheng (middle line) valleys. You can just focus on Rize and Shuzheng valleys, where most of Jiuzhaigou's must-see spots are. Zechawa Valley only has two main attractions, so you can spend less time there if you're on a tight schedule. Rize Valley: the Essence of Jiuzhaigou Rize Valley is the most beautiful and diverse part of Jiuzhaigou's scenery. It would take about 3–4 hours to explore the essence of Rize Valley. There are shuttle buses connecting all the spots in Rize Valley, making this line convenient for saving energy. Five Flower Lake It's considered the essence of Jiuzhaigou. No matter the season, this is the most photogenic spot in the valley, with 12 viewing platforms for you to admire and take photos. Pearl Shoal Waterfall It was popular, as it's a filming location for the classic Chinese TV series Journey to the West, and it's usually visited together with Pearl Shoal. Pearl Shoal Waterfall Mirror Lake The best place to catch mirror-like reflections. Recommend visiting in the morning when there's little wind for a perfect reflection. Insider tip: If you're passing by on a shuttle and see ripple-free water, just get off! If the water is already rippled, you can skip it, as you won't see the mirror effect. Insider tip: If you're passing by on a shuttle and see ripple-free water, just get off! If the water is already rippled, you can skip it, as you won't see the mirror effect. Similar Lakes You Can Skip to Save Time Other lakes, including Grass Lake, Arrow Bamboo Lake, and Panda Lake, are quite similar (about 80% similarity). While all are stunning, visiting too many may lead to visual fatigue. If you're short on time or don't want to expend too much energy, you could skip them or just choose one to visit. For example, during the low season when Grass Lake is closed, Arrow Bamboo Lake makes a good alternative, as it's usually your first stop in Rize Valley. Hiking Route in Rize Valley: If you enjoy hiking, there's a 3km (1.9-mile) hiking trail from the Primeval Forest to Swan Lake, passing Grass Lake along the way, and taking about 1 hour throughout the hiking. Along the trail, you would encounter breathtaking views of the glacial lakes and wetlands. This route is most beautiful in summer, but closed during the low season (November to March). Shuzheng Valley: Best for Seeing Colorful Forests You would need about 2–3 hours to explore Shuzheng Valley's highlights. The highlights of this valley include Nuorilang Waterfall (the largest waterfall in Jiuzhaigou) and the Shuzheng Lakes (the best place to view the colorful forests). Near the Shuzheng Lakes, you'll also find some Tibetan cultural sights, such as colorful prayer flags and prayer wheels. Two recommended viewing and photo points: A viewing point to overlook the entire Shuzheng Lakes area: ascend the stairs for about 500 meters (1,640 feet) to the right of the white pagodas in Shuzheng Village A viewing point to get a full panoramic view of the falls: it is in front of the waterfall (however, the stairs are quite steep, so it's important to assess your physical condition before attempting the climb) Two recommended viewing and photo points: • A viewing point to overlook the entire Shuzheng Lakes area: ascend the stairs for about 500 meters (1,640 feet) to the right of the white pagodas in Shuzheng Village • A viewing point to get a full panoramic view of the falls: it is in front of the waterfall (however, the stairs are quite steep, so it's important to assess your physical condition before attempting the climb) Reed Lake It's a clear turquoise brook surrounded by large areas of reeds that enhance its beauty. In summer, you'll see the lush green reeds, while in other seasons they turn a golden yellow. If you have time or are interested in seeing the reed scenery, you could spend some time there. Reed Lake in late March To reach Reed Lake, you would need to walk as there's no shuttle bus stop there. You could take the shuttle bus to Penjing Shoal and then walk about 10 minutes (800 meters/0.5 mile) back to reach the lake. Alternatively, if you start from Shuanglong Lake, it's a longer walk of about 2.8 km. To reach Reed Lake, you would need to walk as there's no shuttle bus stop there. You could take the shuttle bus to Penjing Shoal and then walk about 10 minutes (800 meters/0.5 mile) back to reach the lake. Alternatively, if you start from Shuanglong Lake, it's a longer walk of about 2.8 km. Which Spots Can be Skipped in Shuzheng Valley? Some scenic spots like Tiger Lake, Rhinoceros Lake, Shuanglong Lake, and Spark Lake are visually similar to other lakes in Jiuzhaigou. If you're short on time, you can skip these stops after visiting the Shuzheng Lakes, and then take the shuttle directly to Penjing Shoal, and then walk to Reed Lake instead. Hiking Route in Shuzheng Valley Shuzheng Valley also offers a beautiful and less crowded hiking route from Sparkling Lake to Penjing Shoal, passing by Shuanglong Lake and Reed Lake along the way. The trek is about 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) long and takes roughly 1-3 hours, depending on your physical energy. Since Shuzheng Valley is usually the last part of the Jiuzhaigou visit, many travelers skip this hike due to fatigue. That means you can often enjoy the scenery in peace, away from the crowds. 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour The Classic Beauties of Sichuan 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour The Classic Beauties of Sichuan 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour The Classic Beauties of Sichuan Zechawa Valley: Highest Point Zechawa Valley boasts two must-visit attractions: Long Lake and Five-Color Lake. It would take about 1 to 2 hours to explore the essence of Zechawa Valley. There aren't many sights in this valley. Besides Long Lake and Five-Color Lake, just two Seasonal Lakes that only fill up in autumn. The rest of the year, they're mostly dry or nearly empty. Long Lake Long Lake is the largest lake in the region, where you could enjoy splendid views of a crystal-clear lake stretching toward the distant snowy mountains. The scenery is especially beautiful on sunny days when the reflections of the snow-capped peaks glitter on the lake's surface. Unlike other lakes, it will also stay frozen throughout winter. Five-Color Lake Five-Color Lake is the smallest of the lakes but one of the most colorful and beautiful lakes in Jiuzhaigou Valley. Five-Color Lake with some snow Insider tips: After visiting Long Lake, you could only reach Five-Color Lake by foot, with the total walk being approximately 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) long (20–30 minutes' walking) and includes steps, both ascending and descending. If your physical condition does not permit many steps, we suggest you skip this valley and visit the other two valleys. Zechawa Valley is the highest part of Jiuzhaigou Valley with an altitude of 3,101 m / 10,174 ft. Therefore, while walking and sightseeing, be sure to take it slow and avoid vigorous activities, as you may experience mild altitude sickness there. After visiting Long Lake, you could only reach Five-Color Lake by foot, with the total walk being approximately 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) long (20–30 minutes' walking) and includes steps, both ascending and descending. If your physical condition does not permit many steps, we suggest you skip this valley and visit the other two valleys. Zechawa Valley is the highest part of Jiuzhaigou Valley with an altitude of 3,101 m / 10,174 ft. Therefore, while walking and sightseeing, be sure to take it slow and avoid vigorous activities, as you may experience mild altitude sickness there. How to Visit Jiuzhaigou The best way to explore Jiuzhaigou is by taking shuttle buses and doing short walks between scenic spots. The park is shaped like a "Y" with three main valleys, and buses run through each of them. Once you enter, a shuttle will take you straight to one of the routes. You won't get to choose which one first, as it depends on the day's crowd flow (which can be up to 40,000 visitors!). But don't worry, the order doesn't really affect your experience. All three valleys are connected at Nuorilang Center Station, where you can switch buses to explore the next valley. One thing to note: not every stop lets you get on or off. And even with a map, it can get confusing. That's why having a guide really helps. They'll know the best places to get off, what's worth exploring on foot, and make sure you don't miss any highlights. Where Can I Go for Lunch? Nuorilang Restaurant in Nuorilang Center Station is the only restaurant inside the park. It looks like a food court, with various options for meals, snacks and drinks. If you're looking for something quick and filling, we recommend the buffet on the second floor. It has more variety and you don't have to wait around for your food. It could be quite crowded at lunchtime (10:30am to 2pm) in the peak season. Moreover, the food is overpriced but quite simple. Therefore, a picnic lunch is helpful to avoid the long queues during peak season and guarantee a better food experience. What Else Attractions or Activities to Combine with My Jiuzhaigou Tour? Huanglong Scenic Area is often paired with Jiuzhaigou It's a 2-hour drive from Jiuzhaigou. There, you could see one of the most outstanding travertine lake terraces in the world, taking about half day to visit. Huanglong is also just 40min/1 hour's drive from Jiuzhai Huanglong Station/Airport, so you can fit it in on arrival or departure day, making your trip more efficient. Dress up in Tibetan costume for a photoshoot inside Jiuzhaigou Since Jiuzhaigou is part of a Tibetan region, you'll find many Tibetan-style sites and photo studios inside Jiuzhaigou, especially around Shuzheng Village. It takes about 1.5 hrs for the photoshoots, including dressing, make-up and shoot. But we recommend doing this only if you have enough time, like a 2-day visit, as Jiuzhaigou is quite large and the photoshoot might cut into your sightseeing time. Enjoy Tibetan home visit and craft experience outside Jiuzhaigou You can experience these activities in Zhongcha Valley, regarded as the back garden of Jiuzhaigou. It's only 20-minute's drive from Jiuzhaigou, With 1-hour home visit, you'll visit the traditional Tibetan villages under the snow-capped mountains, chat with local hosts, learn about their daily life and try barley cakes and butter tea. Alternatively, visit a Tibetan museum for hands-on workshops, such as Tangka painting, Tibetan embroidery and Tibetan incense making. Each lasts about 1-2 hrs. These activities are perfect for the day after your Jiuzhaigou tour, so they won't cut into your sightseeing time. 4-Day Immersive Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Unveil the Mysteries of Natural Beauty and Tibetan Culture 4-Day Immersive Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Unveil the Mysteries of Natural Beauty and Tibetan Culture 4-Day Immersive Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Unveil the Mysteries of Natural Beauty and Tibetan Culture How Many Days Are Needed? For a time-smart itinerary, it would take one day to tour Jiuzhaigou. (Time is tight if you want to fully explore the park in a day. Therefore, you need to focus on the key highlights, take advantage of shuttle buses, and control your schedule well.) If you prefer a more relaxed and soothing pace or have a photography tour, 2 days are better. You could visit more spots or you could do some hiking activities. Here is a suggested itinerary: • Day 1: Jiuzhaigou arrival • Day 2: 1-day Jiuzhaigou tour with the three main valleys • Day 3: A trip to Huanglong and departure If you don't want to go to Huanglong, you could choose 2 days at a slower pace in Jiuzhaigou or head straight to the airport. Our tours are customized. We would adjust or create an itinerary based on your requirements. Just contact us. You can check out more details on our 3-Day Jiuzhaigou and Huanglong Highlights Tour. Insider tips: People always give a 5-star rating to the scenery of Jiuzhaigou without any hesitation. However, if you check on Tripadvisor, 80% of uncomfortable experiences are due to crowds and communication problems. Therefore, if you are not a Chinese speaker, an English-speaking tour guide is highly recommended. An experienced guide could help to maximize your time by avoiding the crowds, overcoming language problems, and even making in-depth cultural experiences with locals possible. People always give a 5-star rating to the scenery of Jiuzhaigou without any hesitation. However, if you check on Tripadvisor, 80% of uncomfortable experiences are due to crowds and communication problems. Therefore, if you are not a Chinese speaker, an English-speaking tour guide is highly recommended. An experienced guide could help to maximize your time by avoiding the crowds, overcoming language problems, and even making in-depth cultural experiences with locals possible. Best Times to Visit Jiuzhaigou Jiuzhaigou is beautiful in all four seasons. No matter which month you visit, you would be able to see stunning scenery. However, if you want to experience seasonal views, you could refer to our recommendations below. • Peak Season (Apr 1 – Nov 15): For the best weather and scenery, aim for September to early November. • Low Season (Nov 16 – Mar 31): Tickets are over 50% cheaper, and prices for transport, hotels, and tours are lower too. Autumn (September to Early November): Top Recommendation Temperature: Averaging 18°C (64°F) at its warmest, it falls to below 8°C (46°F) at night. Autumn is the best time to see the colorful forest. You would see the whole valley turn into a sea of colors with the orange sumac, golden birch leaves, red maple trees, and dark red wild fruit. The color changes of the autumn foliage are as follows: the deepest hues occur from late October to early November, with lighter hues showing from mid to late October, while the foliage begins to show its colors from late September to early October. As autumn is the most beautiful time in Jiuzhaigou, it is the peak season. Hotels, flights, and English-speaking guides are in high demand. If you are going to visit Jiuzhaigou in fall, we recommend booking at least 2 months in advance. Taking some photos while visiting is a good option. Spring (March to May): Budget-Friendly Time Temperature: 9°C (48°F) to 18°C (64°F) in the day, dropping to 6°C (43°F) on average at night Spring is the dry season (especially May and June), so some lakes may have lower water levels. However, most still hold a good amount of water and pleasant scenery. It's also less crowded, and hotel prices are lower, making it a budget-friendly time to visit. In addition to enjoying the lake scenery, if you visit Jiuzhaigou from late March to late April, you could see the blooming peach blossoms. Summer (June to August): Green Forest Summer Retreat Temperature: 20°C (68°F) to 25°C (77°F) in the day, but about 10°C (50°F) at night Jiuzhaigou in summer is greener, and the lakes are a deep, dark blue. In addition, it is also a summer resort to escape the summer heat. Summer is the rainy season. You may have a higher chance of encountering rainy days. Although the scenery in Jiuzhaigou on rainy days is also quite beautiful, it still doesn't compare to the views on sunny days. If you plan to visit Jiuzhaigou in the summer, you may need to pay more attention to the weather forecast and try to choose a sunny day for your trip. Winter (November to February): A Snow-Covered World Temperature: 0°C (32°F) or below Jiuzhaigou may see its first snow in mid-to-late November, and occasional snow throughout the winter. It is the best time to see frozen waterfalls, especially the Pearl Shoal and Nuorilang waterfalls. The lakes on a clear day are even bluer against the surrounding snow. Winter is the offseason, which means there would be fewer travelers and you could enjoy favorable prices. 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour Unveil Ancient Towns and Nature's Wonders 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour Unveil Ancient Towns and Nature's Wonders 6-Day Songpan, Jiuzhaigou and Dujiangyan Tour Unveil Ancient Towns and Nature's Wonders How to Get to Jiuzhaigou Chengdu is the best gateway to Jiuzhaigou. After arriving in Chengdu, you could take a flight or high-speed train journey to Jiuzhaigou. How to Get to Jiuzhaigou from Chengdu By Bullet Train (most popular way with easy check-in process) The most recommended station is Huanglong-Jiuzhai Station. It's about 2 hours by train and the closest to Jiuzhaigou, with only a 1.5-hour drive to the scenic area. During peak seasons, tickets may sell out quickly. In that case, you can consider arriving at nearby Songpan Station (1.5–2 hours by train) or Huangshengguan Station (2–2.5 hours), then transfer by car to Jiuzhaigou, taking around 2 to 2.5 hours. When booking a Jiuzhaigou tour with us, we will arrange the transportation between Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou and the transfers from the station to Jiuzhaigou Valley. Friendly reminder, the roads to Jiuzhaigou are winding and mountainous. If you tend to get a carsick, it's better to prepare some anti-motion-sickness pills or patches. The nearest airport is Jiuzhai Huanglong Airport. You could take a direct flight from Chengdu to the airport with a journey of about an hour. When landing at the airport, you would need to drive for about 2 hours to reach the Jiuzhaigou Scenic Spot. You can now take the expressway to Jiuzhaigou, taking about 5.5 hrs from Chunxi Road in Chengdu to the entrance of Jiuzhaigou. It's half the time compared to before. Insider tips: We recommend taking a high-speed train. A train journey offers better value for money and takes about the same time as flying. A flight takes about 1 hour and a high-speed train trip takes about 1½–2 hours. Moreover, flights during the off-season are not available daily. Insider tips: We recommend taking a high-speed train. A train journey offers better value for money and takes about the same time as flying. A flight takes about 1 hour and a high-speed train trip takes about 1½–2 hours. Moreover, flights during the off-season are not available daily. 8-Day Chengdu,Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour From Nature's Palette to Urban Rhythm 8-Day Chengdu,Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour From Nature's Palette to Urban Rhythm 8-Day Chengdu,Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour From Nature's Palette to Urban Rhythm Where to Stay in Jiuzhaigou Staying inside the park is not allowed. Therefore, we recommend staying near Jiuzhaigou. A 5-star hotel is better, as 3-star hotels or budget hostels offer low-quality service and lack air-conditioning. Tiantangkou (Pengfeng Village): Most convenient for dining It's located 10 minutes ' drive from Jiuzhaigou. You can find many hotels ranging from high-end to budget-friendly, such as Licheng Huating and Ji Hotel All Seasons. Some hotels are so close to Jiuzhaigou's entrance that you can even walk there. Besides, this is the most convenient area for dining near Jiuzhaigou, with plenty of restaurants and craft shops open late into the night. Jiuzhai Beautiful China Resort: Where Luxury Hotels Gather If you prefer international luxury, this resort area hosts many top-tier five-star hotels like Hilton, Conrad, and Indigo. There's a shuttle service directly to Jiuzhaigou's entrance, about 25 minutes. Beyond comfortable stays, you'll find rich local experiences here, including heritage cultures, horseback riding, hiking, museums and more. For families with kids or student groups, it's also a great choice for some fun and educational activities. Will I Get Altitude Sickness in Jiuzhaigou? For most travelers, altitude sickness is not a problem inside the valley. Most scenic spots in Jiuzhaigou are under 3,000 m (9,843 ft), with only Long Lake being situated at 3,101 m (10,174 ft). However, in higher places like Long Lake within Jiuzhaigou (3,101 m /10,174 ft), Jiuzhai Huanglong Airport (3,500 m /11,483 ft), and the nearby Huanglong Scenic Area (3,600 m/11,811 ft), you'd better prepare for possible altitude sickness before arriving. While there, it's advisable not to do any really strenuous exercise or to drink wine. Keep warm and eat plenty of fruit and vegetables. Avoid taking a shower on your first night in Jiuzhaigou. Vulnerability to altitude sickness varies from person to person, so it's advisable to consult your doctor prior to your trip. Anyone with heart disease or high blood pressure should be particularly careful and take precautions when traveling to Jiuzhaigou. Also, a breathing condition, such as asthma or a cold, could make mild altitude sickness feel far worse. Popular Jiuzhaigou Tours • 8-Day Chengdu,Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour • 8-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Xi'an Tour • 9-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Zhangjiajie Nature Tour