ID: 2dace7ecff69c473
Title: Kunming Weather: Best Time to Visit for Scenery, Costs, and More (2026)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/kunming/weather.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Kunming enjoys mild and comfortable weather year-round. It is seldom very cold in winter or very hot in summer, and flowers bloom all year round, giving Kunming the nickname "Spring City". No matter when you go, you should enjoy a good experience. Read on to discover some Kunming weather tips. • The Best Times to Visit Kunming • Kunming Temperatures by Month • Kunming Weather by Month The Best Times to Visit Kunming We've outlined the best times to visit Kunming based on different travel needs. Best Times for Good Weather We've selected the best months for weather based on comfortable temperatures, minimal precipitation, and more sunny days. Therefore, the best times to visit Kunming for favorable weather conditions are late March through May and October to November. During these periods, the average daytime temperature is around 20°C (68°F), with only 4–5 days of rainfall per month, making them ideal for sightseeing and outdoor activities. Best Times for Nice Scenery The best time to visit Kunming for nice scenery is during the blooming season. Kunming's blooming period is typically from late winter to spring: • Late February to April is the best time to see cherry blossoms. • April to May is the best time for blue jacaranda, orchid, peony, and pear flowers. Where to Go to Admire Flowers • Jiaochang Middle Road is the best place to see blue jacaranda while enjoying a city walk. • Yuantong Temple, Yuantong Mountain, and the World Horti-Expo Garden are recommended for cherry blossoms. • Kunming Botanical Garden is good for orchids. • Daguan Park is good for peonies. 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour Best Time to See Seagulls Every year, starting in November, red-billed gulls migrate thousands of kilometers from Siberia to Kunming, staying until March to April. The ideal time to observe these birds is from December to February. Best Locations to See the Gulls • Haigeng Dam: Recommended between 9am and 10am when the gulls are abundant and highly interactive, making it perfect for families with children. • Haizhou National Wetland Park: Located near Haigeng Dam, the best time to visit is during the sunset hours from 5–7pm when the gulls create stunning silhouettes against the setting sun. • Cuihu Park: Centrally located and easily accessible, it's ideal for early morning visits when the gulls are most active. Best Time for a Budget Trip From November to February, Kunming enters its low season for tourism, leading to generally lower hotel prices. However, rates increase for the days around New Year's Day and Chinese New Year. Despite the winter season, temperatures remain mild, averaging around 10°C (50°F), with midday highs reaching approximately 15°C (59°F). With fewer tourists, affordable prices, and relatively mild winter weather, this period is not a bad time to choose. Kunming Temperatures by Month Month Season Average Temp. Rainy Days Crowding January Winter 3–15°C (37–59°F) 1 ★★ February Winter 5–17°C (41–63°F) 1 ★ March Spring 8–21°C (46–70°F) 2 ★★ April Spring 12–23°C (54–73°F) 3 ★★ May Spring 15–24°C (59–75°F) 8 ★★★ June Summer 17–24°C (63–75°F) 12 ★★ July Summer 17–24°C (63–75°F) 14 ★★★ August Summer 17–23°C (63–73°F) 13 ★★★ September Autumn 15–22°C (59–72°F) 10 ★★ October Autumn 12–20°C (54–68°F) 6 ★★★ November Autumn 8–17°C (46–63°F) 3 ★ December Winter 4–15°C (39–59°F) 1 ★ Kunming Weather by Month Click the name of each month to check its Kunming travel guide information. • January • February • July & August • September • October • November • December Kunming in January January is the off-season for tourism in Kunming, so there are relatively fewer tourists. Although the weather in Kunming during January is cold, it's not as harsh as in other Chinese cities. However, warm clothing is still necessary. January in Kunming is dry and mostly sunny, making it ideal for outdoor activities, such as visiting the Stone Forest. Additionally, it's the best time to watch seagulls. What to pack: a thick coat and a sweater as well as a hat, scarf, and gloves for use in the mornings and evenings January is the off-season for tourism in Kunming, so there are relatively fewer tourists. Although the weather in Kunming during January is cold, it's not as harsh as in other Chinese cities. However, warm clothing is still necessary. January in Kunming is dry and mostly sunny, making it ideal for outdoor activities, such as visiting the Stone Forest. Additionally, it's the best time to watch seagulls. What to pack: a thick coat and a sweater as well as a hat, scarf, and gloves for use in the mornings and evenings Kunming in February February in Kunming is also the off-season for tourism, although there might be an increase in visitors during Chinese New Year. The weather remains predominantly dry and sunny. You could visit minority villages, such as Nuohei Village, which is a unique village built out of stone cobbles, where the local people are of the Yi ethnic minority. For seasonal scenery, late February to early March is the best time to visit Luoping (a 2½-drive from Kunming) to see the blooming rapeseed flowers. What to pack: Prepare thick sweaters and an overcoat or down jacket. February in Kunming is also the off-season for tourism, although there might be an increase in visitors during Chinese New Year. The weather remains predominantly dry and sunny. You could visit minority villages, such as Nuohei Village, which is a unique village built out of stone cobbles, where the local people are of the Yi ethnic minority. For seasonal scenery, late February to early March is the best time to visit Luoping (a 2½-drive from Kunming) to see the blooming rapeseed flowers. What to pack: Prepare thick sweaters and an overcoat or down jacket. Kunming in March March marks the beginning of early spring in Kunming. The weather is cool to warm and dry, but it can be changeable, with significant temperature differences between day and night and from day to day. As the temperature rises and the weather becomes sunny and bright, it's a perfect time to view flowers. The cherry blossoms in Kunming are in full bloom and Yuantong Temple is a great place to enjoy them as the temple grounds are filled with blooming flowers. March is still the off-season in Kunming so there are fewer tourists. What to pack: a light jacket or coat and a long-sleeved shirt or light sweater March marks the beginning of early spring in Kunming. The weather is cool to warm and dry, but it can be changeable, with significant temperature differences between day and night and from day to day. As the temperature rises and the weather becomes sunny and bright, it's a perfect time to view flowers. The cherry blossoms in Kunming are in full bloom and Yuantong Temple is a great place to enjoy them as the temple grounds are filled with blooming flowers. March is still the off-season in Kunming so there are fewer tourists. What to pack: a light jacket or coat and a long-sleeved shirt or light sweater Kunming in April The weather in Kunming in April is warm and comfortable and is still within the dry season. The good weather makes it ideal for various activities, such as visiting the Stone Forest and Dianchi Lake. April is still considered to be the off-season in Kunming, but there are more tourists compared to March. Hotel prices remain reasonable, although they may increase as May Day approaches (such as on the 29th and 30th). Therefore, if your schedule is flexible, we recommend visiting before the end of April. What to pack: Prepare a light sweater and a coat. 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour An Epic Landscape Journey to the Plateau of Tibet The weather in Kunming in April is warm and comfortable and is still within the dry season. The good weather makes it ideal for various activities, such as visiting the Stone Forest and Dianchi Lake. April is still considered to be the off-season in Kunming, but there are more tourists compared to March. Hotel prices remain reasonable, although they may increase as May Day approaches (such as on the 29th and 30th). Therefore, if your schedule is flexible, we recommend visiting before the end of April. What to pack: Prepare a light sweater and a coat. 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour An Epic Landscape Journey to the Plateau of Tibet 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour An Epic Landscape Journey to the Plateau of Tibet 12-Day Yunnan and Eastern Tibet Tour An Epic Landscape Journey to the Plateau of Tibet Kunming in May The weather in Kunming in May remains pleasant, with an average temperature range of 15–25°C (59–77°F). It's late spring to early summer and perfect for all kinds of activities. During the first week of May (China's May Day Golden Week), Kunming enters its peak tourism season, with increased crowds and hotel prices, and popular attractions can be quite busy. Of course, if your schedule allows, visiting after the May Day holiday is a better option pricewise and crowd-wise. Instead of the well-known spots, you might consider visiting lesser-known ones, such as Naigu Stone Forest. While not as famous as "The Stone Forest", the scenery is equally stunning. In May, a visit to Dongchuan Red Land is highly recommended, as the vibrant colors of the soil are at their most striking, creating a spectacular contrast against the lush greenery and clear blue skies. What to pack: a T-shirt or thin long-sleeved shirt and a light coat (for mornings and evenings) The weather in Kunming in May remains pleasant, with an average temperature range of 15–25°C (59–77°F). It's late spring to early summer and perfect for all kinds of activities. During the first week of May (China's May Day Golden Week), Kunming enters its peak tourism season, with increased crowds and hotel prices, and popular attractions can be quite busy. Of course, if your schedule allows, visiting after the May Day holiday is a better option pricewise and crowd-wise. Instead of the well-known spots, you might consider visiting lesser-known ones, such as Naigu Stone Forest. While not as famous as "The Stone Forest", the scenery is equally stunning. In May, a visit to Dongchuan Red Land is highly recommended, as the vibrant colors of the soil are at their most striking, creating a spectacular contrast against the lush greenery and clear blue skies. What to pack: a T-shirt or thin long-sleeved shirt and a light coat (for mornings and evenings) Kunming in June Kunming enters summer in June, with temperatures similar to July and August, but rainfall doubles, reaching high levels, so it's advisable to be prepared for rain. Even on rainy days, your plans are unlikely to be disrupted, as the rain typically doesn't last long. You could also plan some indoor activities, such as visiting Dounan Flower Market (the largest flower market in Asia) or Kunming Museum to learn about the history of the American Flying Tigers during World War II. What to pack: prepare light coats, shirts, and T-shirts Kunming enters summer in June, with temperatures similar to July and August, but rainfall doubles, reaching high levels, so it's advisable to be prepared for rain. Even on rainy days, your plans are unlikely to be disrupted, as the rain typically doesn't last long. You could also plan some indoor activities, such as visiting Dounan Flower Market (the largest flower market in Asia) or Kunming Museum to learn about the history of the American Flying Tigers during World War II. What to pack: prepare light coats, shirts, and T-shirts Kunming in July and August If you're looking for a summer retreat, Kunming in July and August is an ideal choice, with an average temperature range of about 17–25°C (63–77°F). However, these two months are also the peak of the rainy season. Rainfall could occur randomly in the morning, afternoon, or evening, but daytime showers are usually brief (about 30 minutes), so there's still a good chance to enjoy clear skies during the day. Much of the rain tends to fall at night. Although rain might cause some inconvenience for outdoor activities, it shouldn't have a decisive impact. Just keep an eye on the weather forecast and be prepared. Additionally, since July and August are peak tourist seasons due to the summer school vacations, it's advisable to book your flights and hotels in advance. What to pack: Wear summer clothes, such as shirts, skirts, and shorts. As it's the rainy season, take an umbrella or raincoat. Evenings are cooler, but still mild. 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments Kunming in July and August If you're looking for a summer retreat, Kunming in July and August is an ideal choice, with an average temperature range of about 17–25°C (63–77°F). However, these two months are also the peak of the rainy season. Rainfall could occur randomly in the morning, afternoon, or evening, but daytime showers are usually brief (about 30 minutes), so there's still a good chance to enjoy clear skies during the day. Much of the rain tends to fall at night. Although rain might cause some inconvenience for outdoor activities, it shouldn't have a decisive impact. Just keep an eye on the weather forecast and be prepared. Additionally, since July and August are peak tourist seasons due to the summer school vacations, it's advisable to book your flights and hotels in advance. What to pack: Wear summer clothes, such as shirts, skirts, and shorts. As it's the rainy season, take an umbrella or raincoat. Evenings are cooler, but still mild. 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments 8-Day Yunnan Family TourA Trip with Memorable Family Moments Kunming in September Rainfall begins to taper off as August ends, but the rainy season doesn't completely end in September with moderate amounts falling. The average temperature range is 15–23°C (59–73°F), making it pleasantly mild as the city gradually transitions into autumn. Clear skies are more common than in summer, making it an ideal time for outdoor activities. Kunming sees fewer tourists in September, resulting in a more relaxed atmosphere and shorter lines at popular attractions. If you're looking for a time to visit Kunming with fewer crowds and pleasant weather, September is highly recommended. What to pack: a light coat, thin hoodies/pullovers, light trousers Check out our 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups Rainfall begins to taper off as August ends, but the rainy season doesn't completely end in September with moderate amounts falling. The average temperature range is 15–23°C (59–73°F), making it pleasantly mild as the city gradually transitions into autumn. Clear skies are more common than in summer, making it an ideal time for outdoor activities. Kunming sees fewer tourists in September, resulting in a more relaxed atmosphere and shorter lines at popular attractions. If you're looking for a time to visit Kunming with fewer crowds and pleasant weather, September is highly recommended. What to pack: a light coat, thin hoodies/pullovers, light trousers Check out our 7-Day Yunnan Tour for Teenager School Groups Kunming in October October is one of the best months for weather in Kunming, with an average temperature range of 13–21°C (55–70°F). The rainy season has ended and most days are sunny. The first week of October is the National Day holiday, China's second Golden Week for tourism, so crowds are inevitable. It's advisable to book hotels and flights in advance. After the holiday ends, the number of tourists significantly decreases in mid to late October, making it one of the best times to visit Kunming. What to pack: Take a sweater and a light jacket. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan October is one of the best months for weather in Kunming, with an average temperature range of 13–21°C (55–70°F). The rainy season has ended and most days are sunny. The first week of October is the National Day holiday, China's second Golden Week for tourism, so crowds are inevitable. It's advisable to book hotels and flights in advance. After the holiday ends, the number of tourists significantly decreases in mid to late October, making it one of the best times to visit Kunming. What to pack: Take a sweater and a light jacket. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan Kunming in November In November, Kunming is in late autumn to early winter, with temperatures starting to drop. It's also the off-season for tourism in Kunming. This is the best time to visit Dongchuan Red Land, as the weather is pleasant, the sky is clear, and the soil displays its brightest red hues. Some areas of the red land are planted with green barley or wheat, and the unique white rapeseed flowers of Yunnan are in full bloom, adding even more color to the landscape. Additionally, you could start seeing seagulls arriving at Dianchi Lake for the winter. What to pack: a coat, sweater, and long-sleeved T-shirt In November, Kunming is in late autumn to early winter, with temperatures starting to drop. It's also the off-season for tourism in Kunming. This is the best time to visit Dongchuan Red Land, as the weather is pleasant, the sky is clear, and the soil displays its brightest red hues. Some areas of the red land are planted with green barley or wheat, and the unique white rapeseed flowers of Yunnan are in full bloom, adding even more color to the landscape. Additionally, you could start seeing seagulls arriving at Dianchi Lake for the winter. What to pack: a coat, sweater, and long-sleeved T-shirt Kunming in December Kunming enters winter in December. It's sunny most of the time but it gets cold when it rains. Does Kunming have snow? Yes, especially in the mountainous rural areas, such as Dongchuan and Yuanyang, but it rarely snows in the city. Can I ski in Kunming? Yes. Jiaozi Snow Mountain, a 2-hour drive from Kunming, is the best place in winter for skiing and snowscapes. What to pack: Prepare thick sweaters and an overcoat. Kunming enters winter in December. It's sunny most of the time but it gets cold when it rains. Does Kunming have snow? Yes, especially in the mountainous rural areas, such as Dongchuan and Yuanyang, but it rarely snows in the city. Can I ski in Kunming? Yes. Jiaozi Snow Mountain, a 2-hour drive from Kunming, is the best place in winter for skiing and snowscapes. What to pack: Prepare thick sweaters and an overcoat. Recommended Kunming Tours • 3-Day Essence of Kunming • 8-Day 'Meet Yourself' Yunnan Tour • More Yunnan/Kunming tours All of our tours can be adjusted/customized. Feel free to contact us and we'll create your itinerary based on your requirements.