ID: 2c6a3c7c4c502280
Title: Tang Paradise in Xi'an: What to Do and How to Visit
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/xian/attraction/tang-paradise.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

As you enter Tang Paradise, it feels like you've stepped back 1,000 years in time! You would be amazed by the ancient-style buildings that dot the landscape. Pavilions and towers are everywhere and the lakes, which are home to elegant swans, shimmer with a vibrant green. The surrounding flowers and trees are exceptionally beautiful. Strolling through the gardens, you could almost imagine people from the Tang Dynasty reciting poetry, painting, singing, and dancing. It's a place worth visiting! Tang Paradise has something for everyone. Whether you're male or female, young or old, you would find scenes that resonate with you. In recent years, tourists have shown a particular interest in wearing Hanfu to enhance their experience of traveling through time. Tang Paradise is the perfect backdrop for capturing stunning photos. Wearing ancient costumes while wandering through the historic gardens creates an indescribable feeling! Susan Yang 20 Years as a Local Guide in Xi'an Hi, I'm Susan, a proud native of Xi'an. After traveling extensively across China, I've realized that my hometown remains my favorite. As a tour guide, I take pride in sharing the stories of Xi'an, along with its food and culture. I hope to meet you and help you experience the beauty of this city through my guidance. 20 Years as a Local Guide in Xi'an Hi, I'm Susan, a proud native of Xi'an. After traveling extensively across China, I've realized that my hometown remains my favorite. As a tour guide, I take pride in sharing the stories of Xi'an, along with its food and culture. I hope to meet you and help you experience the beauty of this city through my guidance. • What to Do and See • How to Take Nice Photos • How to Visit • Best Time to Visit • How to Get to What to Do and See in Tang Paradise Tang Paradise is a place where you could explore a vibrant dream from thousands of years ago. As you step into Tang Paradise, it feels as if you have traveled back in time, immersing yourself in the grandeur of the Tang Dynasty. As you wander through this enchanting space, you could sense that every building has its own ancient story to tell. Exploring the Tang Dynasty's Architectural Beauty Walk slowly alongside Furong Lake, which is surrounded by pavilions and towers in a beautiful setting. The water sparkles, reflecting the weeping willows and pavilions along the shore, resembling a natural ink-wash painting. In front of the Purple Cloud Tower, the landmark building in Tang Paradise, I was taking photos for my clients when two ladies dressed in gorgeous clothing walked past me. At that moment, I felt as though I had traveled back to the Tang Dynasty. In the Imperial Banquet Hall, you could savor the court cuisine of the Tang Dynasty while enjoying court performances. My favorite dish is a hot pot. Enjoy Featured Shows and Performances Performances in Fengming Jiutian Theater The following are the approximate times of regular performances in Tang Paradise for reference. The schedule might change. For specific times, please refer to the performance information of Tang Paradise. Restoration Performances of Tang Dynasty Murals • Ladies Under the Tree: 15:25–15:33, 16:25–16:33, 18:25–18:33, and 19:25–19:33, at the Children's Play Area • Playing the Lute and Sipping Tea: 15:50–15:56, 16:50–16:56, 18:50–18:56, and 19:50–19:56, at the Apricot Garden • Ladies with Fans: 14:40–14:48, 15:40–15:48, 17:30–17:38, 18:30–18:38, at the North Gate of the Ladies' Hall • The Court Music and Dance of the Tang Dynasty "Drum": 15:00–15:35 and 19:00–19:35, on the third floor of the Purple Cloud Tower. • Dreaming Back to the Great Tang: 17:00–18:00, at the Fengming Jiutian Theater. It showcases the prosperity of the flourishing Tang Dynasty with modern artistic techniques. • "Searching for Dreams in Furongli" in the Tang Ladies' Space Station: 19:00–19:50, in the Ladies' Hall. • Chasing the Dream of the Great Tang: 20:30–21:00, at the North Square of the Purple Cloud Tower. It is a large-scale water, dance, light, and shadow show. The actors are dressed in gorgeous Tang costumes, dancing gracefully and singing melodiously, allowing you to immerse yourself in the cultural charm of the Tang Dynasty. In addition, there are other performances, such as the Furong Snow Show — 3D Light and Shadow Show on the Mountain, the Light and Shadow Display of the Sand Table of Chang'an City in the Prosperous Tang Dynasty, the Music Fountain Performance, Gorgeous Shadows and Beautiful Costumes (clothing performances), etc. Taste the Variety of Mouthwatering Snacks and Dishes Pita bread soaked in lamb soup Tang Market: It is a commercial street imitating the style of the Tang Dynasty, with numerous shops and stalls selling commodities in the style of the Tang Dynasty. There, I always find some novel trinkets. It also offers many branded cuisines, such as street fish, hot pots, etc. Chang'an Wharf: It offers a variety of Chang'an snacks, such as candied haws, Jianzhen tofu, etc. Hu Shop: There are specialty foods, such as pita bread soaked in lamb soup, cold rice noodles, and Chinese hamburgers. How to Take Nice Photos in Tang Paradise Tang Paradise is very suitable for taking photos while wearing Hanfu. However, I don't recommend renting Hanfu in the park as they're relatively expensive there. The Hanfu offered outside the park have much better prices. Next, let me tell you where the best places are to take beautiful photos. 1. Purple Cloud Tower Take Hanfu Photos at Purple Cloud Tower You could take pictures with the Purple Cloud Tower as the background from the square in front of it to show its majestic appearance. You could also ascend the Purple Cloud Tower and overlook the scenery of Tang Paradise from the railings upstairs, photographing the pavilions, towers, lakes, and garden landscapes in the distance. When walking along the lakeside, you could photograph the reflections in the water. The weeping willows and lotus flowers on the shore and the pavilions on the lake set off each other, forming a beautiful picture. 3. Colorful Clouds Long Corridor Colorful Clouds Long Corridor When walking inside the long corridor, you could take portrait photos with a classical charm. When the sunlight is abundant, it shines through the gaps of the long corridor, and the light and shadow effects are excellent, making it very suitable for taking pictures. If you are interested in taking Hanfu photos, you could some more ideas in our How to Take the Best Hanfu Photos in Xi'an Our guests are taking photos in Hanfu at Tang Paradise. The Flag Pavilion's surrounding arrangements are also in the style of the Tang Dynasty. When taking pictures there, you could combine the architectural details of the Flag Pavilion with people to create a strong Tang Dynasty atmosphere. Taking pictures there could capture a strong flavor of the marketplace. The ancient-style signboards, a dazzling array of commodities, and the coming and going of tourists could all add a lively atmosphere to the photos. You could stand at the entrance of the shops or in the middle of the street to take pictures and record this commercial atmosphere imitating the Tang Dynasty. How to Visit Tang Paradise It would take you 1½ hours' walk but you could also choose to take a shuttle car to save your energy. The shuttle car stops at each place so you would not miss out on going anywhere. Start from the Royal Banquet Gate – Silver Bridge Waterfall – Ziyun Tower – Tang Market Block – Tang Poetry Gorge – Soul of Poetry – Palace Maid Hall – Flag Pavilion – Chang'an Wharf – Apricot Garden – Lu Yu Tea House – Children's Amusement Area – and then return to the Royal Banquet Gate. If you would like to add Tang Paradise to your Xi'an trip, feel free to contact us. We could create an itinerary based on your interests such as preparing Hanfu clothing for you for photos. Best Times to Visit Tang Paradise Tang Paradise During Lantern Festival Spring and Autumn: the Best Times of Year to Visit Spring (March–May): Flowers are in full bloom in the park, especially apricot blossoms in the Apricot Garden. Walking alongside the lake and enjoying the beautiful scenery of the lake and flowers, you could fully experience the beauty of the spring scenery at Tang Paradise. Autumn (September–November): The autumn air is clear and crisp, and the sky is blue. At this time, the leaves in the park are gradually changing color. Summer (June to August) and winter (December to February) are not suitable for visiting Tang Paradise. In summer, the temperature could reach 38°C (100°F) and it's easy to get heatstroke when outdoors. In winter, the temperature is about -5°C (23°F) and it feels extremely cold. Nighttime: the Best Time of Day to Visit The Long Corridor lit at Night Tang Paradise at Night As the sun sets, the buildings in the park are bathed in a warm golden afterglow. For example, the Ziyun Tower looks even more solemn and magnificent under the illumination of the setting sun. At this time, strolling alongside Furong Lake and looking at the sunset glow and ancient buildings reflected in the water, with light and shadow intertwined, is like being in a dreamy world. Moreover, the temperature in the evening is relatively comfortable, so it wouldn't be too hot or too cold when you visit. The night light show at Tang Paradise is about to start. As the sky gradually darkens, you could slowly enjoy the transition from natural light and shadow to the brightly lit scene. If you want to know more about Xi'an weather information, you could see on our Best Times to Visit Xi'an. How to Get to Tang Paradise You could take bus number 609 or Metro Line 4 (Tang Paradise Station). Taxis could also take you there directly. However, during holidays, you may have to wait for a long time to get a taxi. A private car is the best choice. China Highlights can provide you with a hassle-free private tour in Xi'an. Contact us to create your personal trip with our expert.