ID: 61370f83507d2491
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Beijing and Yunnan (2026)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-beijing-and-yunnan.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

In Beijing, the historical and cultural medieval capital of China, you would get an insight into Chinese history and experience traditional cultural activities. In Yunnan, meaning 'south of the clouds', numerous visitors are attracted by its diverse minority cultures and pristine, holy, and splendid scenery. To plan a trip spanning China's huge northern capital and adventurous southwest region is not uncomplicated. This travel guide would help you to prepare for the trip with suggested itineraries, transportation choices, recommended visiting times, and a reference budget. • How Long to Stay in Beijing and Yunnan • Beijing and Yunnan Itinerary Suggestions • How to Travel between Yunnan and Xinjiang • Best Time to Visit Beijing and Yunnan • Budget for a Beijing and Yunnan Tour How Long to Spend in Beijing and Yunnan A classic Beijing and Yunnan tour typically lasts 10–14 days, with 3–5 days in Beijing and at least a week to explore Yunnan. In Beijing, 4 days are ample for you to visit its highlights, covering the Forbidden City, the Great Wall, the Temple of Heaven, and the Summer Palace. Yunnan is a diverse and vast province with multiple enchanting cities, so you would require more time to explore it. For first-timers, we recommend spending at least a week visiting Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La, with about 2 days spent in each city. If you are interested in a paradise of flora and fauna, Xishuangbanna could be added to your itinerary for an additional 3 days. There, you could immerse yourself in the rich Dai culture and Southeast Asian ambiance, and step into the kingdom of animals and plants. 18-day Classic China Tour with Yunnan China Essence and South Discovery 18-day Classic China Tour with Yunnan China Essence and South Discovery 18-day Classic China Tour with Yunnan China Essence and South Discovery Beijing and Yunnan Itinerary Suggestions 1. A Classic 11-Day Beijing and Yunnan Itinerary • Day 1: Beijing arrival • Day 2: Tian'anmen Square and the Forbidden City • Day 3: The Temple of Heaven, the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall, and the hutongs • Day 4: The Summer Palace and transfer to Kunming • Day 5: Naigu Stone Forest • Day 6: Transfer to Dali and visit Cangshan, Erhai, and Xizhou Bai folk houses • Day 7: Dali to Lijiang and visit Lijiang Ancient Town • Day 8: Jade Dragon Snow Mountain • Day 9: Tiger Leaping Gorge and transfer to Shangri-La • Day 10: Songzanlin Lamasery and Pudacuo National Park • Day 11: Shangri-La departure This 11-day itinerary, designed without a tight travel pace, covers the classic attractions in Beijing and Yunnan. You would spend 4 days in Beijing, exploring historical and cultural attractions as well as modern sites. Then, you would have 7 days in Yunnan, starting in Kunming, moving to Dali, and gradually transitioning to the high-altitude areas from Lijiang to Shangri-La, helping you acclimate to the altitude. For the choice of Great Wall section, we recommend Mutianyu rather than Badaling, although the latter may be more popular. Mutianyu is less crowded and more suitable for kids, the elderly, and anyone looking for a more fun and relaxed experience, with flatter ground for walking and beautifully-restored Great Wall architecture. If you are looking for a wild hiking experience or a more romantic experience, such as a Great Wall sunset with a wine picnic, we recommend Jinshanling. Another recommendation is Simatai. This section is unique for its tastefully-illuminated night access to the Great Wall. Our guests at Mutianyu Great Wall While being efficient, this itinerary is relaxing and friendlier for kids and the elderly. For some of the outdoor visits in Yunnan, we have arranged a more-relaxed sightseeing experience rather than a physically demanding hike. You'll take a cable car visit to Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and sightseeing in Tiger Leaping Gorge instead of hiking. However, if you would prefer some hiking, we would adjust the itinerary based on your interests. Please feel free to contact us. Jade Dragon Snow Mountain in a sunny day To make the journey more enjoyable for a family with kids, we could arrange various activities. In Beijing, experience traditional Chinese wooden or bamboo toys, taste delicate sugar paintings, and take a toboggan ride down the Great Wall. In Yunnan, enjoy some family time making flower cakes or immerse yourself in tie-dyeing of handkerchiefs. 2. A 12-Day Beijing and Yunnan Winter Itinerary • Day 1: Beijing arrival • Day 2: Tian'anmen Square, the Forbidden City, the Temple of Heaven, and a food adventure in the hutongs • Day 3: Mutianyu section of the Great Wall and Chunhuiyuan Hot Spring Resort • Day 4: Transfer to Chongli and go skiing at Thaiwoo Ski Resort • Day 5: A half-day of skiing and transfer back to Beijing • Day 6: The Summer Palace and transfer to Dali • Day 7: Erhai, a distant view of Cangshan, and the Three Pagodas • Day 8: Dali to Shaxi Ancient Town • Day 9: Transfer to Lijiang and explore the old town and Black Dragon Pool Park • Day 10: Jade Dragon Snow Mountain • Day 11: Transfer to Kunming and visit Naigu Stone Forest • Day 12: Kunming departure You could immerse yourself in various ice and snow activities during winter in Beijing. Compared to the regular 4-day Beijing journey, you would extend your Beijing time on this 12-day winter itinerary, with 6 days in Beijing and 6 days in Yunnan. In Beijing, the hot spring baths and skiing are enjoyable during wintertime. The highly-recommended Olympic Thaiwoo Ski Resort features comprehensive facilities, high-quality snow, and a spectacular landscape. With a fairy-tale-like atmosphere, it is also popular with couples and families with kids. Alternatively, you could consider Nanshan Ski Resort, which is closer to Beijing. You could travel to and from it in a day, and it provides the most advanced ski equipment and amenities. Skiing in Thaiwoo Ski Trsort In Yunnan, Kunming and Dali enjoy a "seagull season" from November to February. Winter is also the best time to admire the snow-covered Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, while the snowscape is not as grand during the summertime. Shangri-La is excluded from this winter itinerary due to the severe cold and the increased likelihood of altitude sickness. However, if time permits and you are interested in the Tibetan culture and customs in Shangri-La, you could also add this destination to your itinerary. Seagulls are hovering over Dian Lake in Kunming How to Travel between Beijing and Yunnan Both Beijing and Yunnan could serve as entry or exit points. This is especially convenient for travelers from Southeast Asia as there are frequent direct flights to Beijing or Kunming from Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and other countries. There are various transportation options between Beijing and Yunnan, including flights, bullet trains, and normal trains. You could choose the travel route and transportation mode according to your own needs. The following information is for an approximate reference. Travel Route Flight Bullet Train Normal Train Beijing–Kunming Direct: 3½ hours Direct: 10–14 hours Direct: 35–45 hours Beijing–Dali Direct: 4 hours All require a transfer in Kunming. The train journey usually lasts for 1–2 days. Beijing–Lijiang Direct: 3½ hours Beijing–Shangri-La Transfer/stopover For the classic itinerary, if you want more efficiency, you could consider this route sequence, which puts Kunming last to give more China departure options: Beijing→Dali→Lijiang→Shangri-La→Kunming. Transportation in Yunnan Transportation within Yunnan is well-developed, with direct flights and bullet trains being the main modes of travel. Typically, direct flights take about 1–1½ hours, while bullet train journeys range from 1–6 hours. There are some situations where we recommend a private transfer, i.e. from Dali to Lijiang and from Lijiang to Shangri-La. The journey from Dali to Lijiang by car is similar in duration to that by bullet train. However, a private car is more convenient as it would take you directly from hotel to hotel. We recommend taking a private car from Lijiang to Shangri-La because you could visit Tiger Leaping Gorge without a detour since it is located between Lijiang and Shangri-La. A dedicated guide and driver would accompany you throughout, providing greater convenience and addressing any unexpected health issues. If you experience any discomfort during your journey, you could stop at any time to rest and your guide would offer prompt assistance, which is more-often needed for a family with kids and seniors. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan Best Times to Visit Beijing and Yunnan Considering the weather and crowds, early summer (May to June) and autumn (September to October) are the best times to visit both Beijing and Yunnan. The temperature usually ranges from 15–30°C (59–86°F) in Beijing and Yunnan is usually a few degrees cooler. These periods also offer more sunny days and clear skies. In spring, both Beijing and Yunnan are adorned with blooming flowers. In autumn, the gold and red foliage colors decorate these destinations like a sunset painting. If you prefer snow-covered landscapes and seagulls, November to February could be a good option for you. Temperatures could be below -10°C (14°F) in Beijing, creating ideal weather for skiing. Meanwhile, in Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang, temperatures usually range from 10–15°C (50–59°F), offering a milder and more comfortable climate and seagull visitors at Yunnan's lakes. In Beijing, you're also advised to consider the occasional dust storms and haze during early spring and late autumn. In March and April, willow catkins and pollen fill the air. If you have hay fever, breathing difficulties, or allergies, it is important to take protective measures. In Yunnan, there is a significant temperature difference between day and night throughout the year, so it's important to bring warm clothes regardless of when you travel to Yunnan. Budget for a Beijing and Yunnan Tour A private trip to Beijing and Yunnan for two or more people typically costs $200–250 per person per day. This includes accommodation, meals, English-speaking guides, domestic transfers, private vehicles, activities, attraction tickets, etc. Prices may vary depending on the activities, visit time, and the number of people. Seasonal activities, for example winter skiing in Beijing, are a little bit more expensive. Yunnan's travel costs vary greatly with peak seasons (summer and China's public holidays) and off-peak times, especially for accommodation, while Beijing experiences fewer fluctuations. In addition, the larger the group, the more discounts you get. Traveling with your wider family or friends provides a good budget option. You could refer to our prices for Beijing and Yunnan tours, adding the transfer cost between Beijing and Yunnan: • 4-Day Beijing Private Tour • 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour • 6-Day Beijing Winter Tour • 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour