ID: 3c7831b711895fa7
Title: 3-Hour Trendy Foodie Tour in Beijing Sanlitun
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/beijing/3-hour-beijing-sanlitun-food-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Beijing Sanlitun Commecial Area is one of Beijing's liveliest neighbourhoods, attracts locals and foreigners alike at all times of the day and night, thanks to its plethora of shops, bars, restaurants, clubs and more. Sanlitun is known for its fashionable dining and nightlife scene. Upscale Chinese restaurants serve crispy roast duck, global bistros and pastry cafes offer European fare, and tiny shops sell noodles and stewed pork buns to revelers spilling out of the area's karaoke bars, cocktail lounges and raucous dance clubs. The massive Taikoo Li Mall is home to international chain stores and contemporary outdoor sculptures. Our 3-hour food tour will lead you to the heatest Sanlitun in Beijing, unlock those INS influence shops and restaurants in the neighborhood, get more likes on your Instagram, Facebook or twitter.Join our mini group tour with at most 4 people to be a trendy foodie! Tour Highlights Discover Beijing CBD in Sanlitun and try 4-5 specical dishes and drinks. Led by a local English-speaking foodie guide, no language barries. An accessible way to learn Beijing's trendy lifestyle and food culture. Mini group tour provides an intimate way to explore the livelist area of Beijing. Call Us Food Maniac We have a team of foodie guides who are passionate and friendly, bring you a excellent food experience to the interesting places in Beijing. We take you to some places in the hidden alley which only locals know, some places in fashion and lively area which young people love to go. Also we share you the city's food culture and history, tell you why the food makes it such a special place and see how the local people make the food while enjoying the endless snack, drinks, etc. Detailed Itinerary Close All 5:00 - 5:10 PMMeet The Guide Meet at the gate of Uniqlo Clothing Store in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall (北京三里屯太古里优衣库门口) at 5:00pm. Your tour guide will be waiting for you with other tour members, holding a sign with the China Highlights logo on. You can get there by subway or taxi. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Uniqlo in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 10 to the Tuanjiehu Station and go to exit A, and take 10 mins to walk to the Taikoo Li Mall. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到三里屯太古里优衣库门口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 5:10 - 7:30 PMEnjoy Delicious Food Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. Begin the tour at the food square in Sanlitun. You can taste Chinese cusine, Japanese speciality, fancy desert, dirty bread, yogurt with full of design, and drinks. You will try 4-5 types of food. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. We will lead you to the best bakery hidden in Sanlitun, the dirty chocolate croissants you should never miss it. Also you will have a chance to see the process of making delicious food by professional chefs. Taste in a noodle bar Most popular dirty chocolate croissant Chef is making food Bubble tea is almost as popular and generally known as the best in China.It's common for deliveries of steamy cups of creamy tea to show up at the office daily. Even though bubble tea has permeated the globe, China is still the place to try it out. There are thousands of bubble tea shops throughout China and Sanlitun is a home to many well-known shops. We will try one of the best milktea during our tour. Bubble Tea Shop Various types of bubble tea During the tour, we recommend some Chinese special snacks as well, such as a Chinese burger, fried tofu, a flat bread, etc. All the hidden gems should not be revealed until you discover them by yourself in this walk tour! Just stay hungry! And remember, food at your own expense, as everyone in the group is free to choose what they like to eat. So we suggest you to bring some RMB cash with you. Guests eat together Buy your favorite food 7:30 – 8:00 PMExplore Fashion Shops TIn addition to discovery food, Sanlitun gathers the most complete fashion brand stores in Beijing. Many street fashion trendsetters are from Sanlitun, when mention of Sanlitun, people know that it is the birthplace of the trend. We will lead you to explore these famous stores, take some IN photos to blow up your social networking sites. A fashion store Price Include: Group up to 4 people. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Food fee. (Average cost is between 120-150 yuan per person). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Beijing Sanlitun Commecial Area is one of Beijing's liveliest neighbourhoods, attracts locals and foreigners alike at all times of the day and night, thanks to its plethora of shops, bars, restaurants, clubs and more. Sanlitun is known for its fashionable dining and nightlife scene. Upscale Chinese restaurants serve crispy roast duck, global bistros and pastry cafes offer European fare, and tiny shops sell noodles and stewed pork buns to revelers spilling out of the area's karaoke bars, cocktail lounges and raucous dance clubs. The massive Taikoo Li Mall is home to international chain stores and contemporary outdoor sculptures. Our 3-hour food tour will lead you to the heatest Sanlitun in Beijing, unlock those INS influence shops and restaurants in the neighborhood, get more likes on your Instagram, Facebook or twitter.Join our mini group tour with at most 4 people to be a trendy foodie! Beijing Sanlitun Commecial Area is one of Beijing's liveliest neighbourhoods, attracts locals and foreigners alike at all times of the day and night, thanks to its plethora of shops, bars, restaurants, clubs and more. Sanlitun is known for its fashionable dining and nightlife scene. Upscale Chinese restaurants serve crispy roast duck, global bistros and pastry cafes offer European fare, and tiny shops sell noodles and stewed pork buns to revelers spilling out of the area's karaoke bars, cocktail lounges and raucous dance clubs. The massive Taikoo Li Mall is home to international chain stores and contemporary outdoor sculptures. Our 3-hour food tour will lead you to the heatest Sanlitun in Beijing, unlock those INS influence shops and restaurants in the neighborhood, get more likes on your Instagram, Facebook or twitter.Join our mini group tour with at most 4 people to be a trendy foodie! Tour Highlights Discover Beijing CBD in Sanlitun and try 4-5 specical dishes and drinks. Led by a local English-speaking foodie guide, no language barries. An accessible way to learn Beijing's trendy lifestyle and food culture. Mini group tour provides an intimate way to explore the livelist area of Beijing. • Discover Beijing CBD in Sanlitun and try 4-5 specical dishes and drinks. • Led by a local English-speaking foodie guide, no language barries. • An accessible way to learn Beijing's trendy lifestyle and food culture. • Mini group tour provides an intimate way to explore the livelist area of Beijing. Call Us Food Maniac We have a team of foodie guides who are passionate and friendly, bring you a excellent food experience to the interesting places in Beijing. We take you to some places in the hidden alley which only locals know, some places in fashion and lively area which young people love to go. Also we share you the city's food culture and history, tell you why the food makes it such a special place and see how the local people make the food while enjoying the endless snack, drinks, etc. We have a team of foodie guides who are passionate and friendly, bring you a excellent food experience to the interesting places in Beijing. We take you to some places in the hidden alley which only locals know, some places in fashion and lively area which young people love to go. Also we share you the city's food culture and history, tell you why the food makes it such a special place and see how the local people make the food while enjoying the endless snack, drinks, etc. Detailed Itinerary Close All 5:00 - 5:10 PMMeet The Guide Meet at the gate of Uniqlo Clothing Store in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall (北京三里屯太古里优衣库门口) at 5:00pm. Your tour guide will be waiting for you with other tour members, holding a sign with the China Highlights logo on. You can get there by subway or taxi. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Uniqlo in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 10 to the Tuanjiehu Station and go to exit A, and take 10 mins to walk to the Taikoo Li Mall. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到三里屯太古里优衣库门口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 5:10 - 7:30 PMEnjoy Delicious Food Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. Begin the tour at the food square in Sanlitun. You can taste Chinese cusine, Japanese speciality, fancy desert, dirty bread, yogurt with full of design, and drinks. You will try 4-5 types of food. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. We will lead you to the best bakery hidden in Sanlitun, the dirty chocolate croissants you should never miss it. Also you will have a chance to see the process of making delicious food by professional chefs. Taste in a noodle bar Most popular dirty chocolate croissant Chef is making food Bubble tea is almost as popular and generally known as the best in China.It's common for deliveries of steamy cups of creamy tea to show up at the office daily. Even though bubble tea has permeated the globe, China is still the place to try it out. There are thousands of bubble tea shops throughout China and Sanlitun is a home to many well-known shops. We will try one of the best milktea during our tour. Bubble Tea Shop Various types of bubble tea During the tour, we recommend some Chinese special snacks as well, such as a Chinese burger, fried tofu, a flat bread, etc. All the hidden gems should not be revealed until you discover them by yourself in this walk tour! Just stay hungry! And remember, food at your own expense, as everyone in the group is free to choose what they like to eat. So we suggest you to bring some RMB cash with you. Guests eat together Buy your favorite food 7:30 – 8:00 PMExplore Fashion Shops TIn addition to discovery food, Sanlitun gathers the most complete fashion brand stores in Beijing. Many street fashion trendsetters are from Sanlitun, when mention of Sanlitun, people know that it is the birthplace of the trend. We will lead you to explore these famous stores, take some IN photos to blow up your social networking sites. A fashion store Close All 5:00 - 5:10 PMMeet The Guide Meet at the gate of Uniqlo Clothing Store in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall (北京三里屯太古里优衣库门口) at 5:00pm. Your tour guide will be waiting for you with other tour members, holding a sign with the China Highlights logo on. You can get there by subway or taxi. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Uniqlo in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 10 to the Tuanjiehu Station and go to exit A, and take 10 mins to walk to the Taikoo Li Mall. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到三里屯太古里优衣库门口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 5:10 - 7:30 PMEnjoy Delicious Food Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. Begin the tour at the food square in Sanlitun. You can taste Chinese cusine, Japanese speciality, fancy desert, dirty bread, yogurt with full of design, and drinks. You will try 4-5 types of food. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. We will lead you to the best bakery hidden in Sanlitun, the dirty chocolate croissants you should never miss it. Also you will have a chance to see the process of making delicious food by professional chefs. Taste in a noodle bar Most popular dirty chocolate croissant Chef is making food Bubble tea is almost as popular and generally known as the best in China.It's common for deliveries of steamy cups of creamy tea to show up at the office daily. Even though bubble tea has permeated the globe, China is still the place to try it out. There are thousands of bubble tea shops throughout China and Sanlitun is a home to many well-known shops. We will try one of the best milktea during our tour. Bubble Tea Shop Various types of bubble tea During the tour, we recommend some Chinese special snacks as well, such as a Chinese burger, fried tofu, a flat bread, etc. All the hidden gems should not be revealed until you discover them by yourself in this walk tour! Just stay hungry! And remember, food at your own expense, as everyone in the group is free to choose what they like to eat. So we suggest you to bring some RMB cash with you. Guests eat together Buy your favorite food 7:30 – 8:00 PMExplore Fashion Shops TIn addition to discovery food, Sanlitun gathers the most complete fashion brand stores in Beijing. Many street fashion trendsetters are from Sanlitun, when mention of Sanlitun, people know that it is the birthplace of the trend. We will lead you to explore these famous stores, take some IN photos to blow up your social networking sites. A fashion store 5:00 - 5:10 PMMeet The Guide Meet at the gate of Uniqlo Clothing Store in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall (北京三里屯太古里优衣库门口) at 5:00pm. Your tour guide will be waiting for you with other tour members, holding a sign with the China Highlights logo on. You can get there by subway or taxi. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Uniqlo in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 10 to the Tuanjiehu Station and go to exit A, and take 10 mins to walk to the Taikoo Li Mall. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到三里屯太古里优衣库门口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 5:00 - 5:10 PMMeet The Guide Meet at the gate of Uniqlo Clothing Store in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall (北京三里屯太古里优衣库门口) at 5:00pm. Your tour guide will be waiting for you with other tour members, holding a sign with the China Highlights logo on. You can get there by subway or taxi. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Uniqlo in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall Good to Know: How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 10 to the Tuanjiehu Station and go to exit A, and take 10 mins to walk to the Taikoo Li Mall. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到三里屯太古里优衣库门口” This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Meet at the gate of Uniqlo Clothing Store in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall (北京三里屯太古里优衣库门口) at 5:00pm. Your tour guide will be waiting for you with other tour members, holding a sign with the China Highlights logo on. You can get there by subway or taxi. Please make sure to arrive punctually as the trip must begin on time. If for some reason you cannot get there by the specified time, please make a call to your tour guide (listed on the confirmation letter that we will send you the day before your departure) and your tour guide will try his or her best to help you. Uniqlo in Sanlitun Taikoo Li Mall • How to get to the meeting point by Subway? 1. You can take subway line 10 to the Tuanjiehu Station and go to exit A, and take 10 mins to walk to the Taikoo Li Mall. The ticket price for the train starts from CNY 3 Yuan based on the distance of your trip. 2. You can take a taxi, show the driver Chinese address: "您好师傅，请送我到三里屯太古里优衣库门口” • This tour is vegetarian friendly. If you have any dietary requirements or allergies, please write to us at the time of booking. • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 5:10 - 7:30 PMEnjoy Delicious Food Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. Begin the tour at the food square in Sanlitun. You can taste Chinese cusine, Japanese speciality, fancy desert, dirty bread, yogurt with full of design, and drinks. You will try 4-5 types of food. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. We will lead you to the best bakery hidden in Sanlitun, the dirty chocolate croissants you should never miss it. Also you will have a chance to see the process of making delicious food by professional chefs. Taste in a noodle bar Most popular dirty chocolate croissant Chef is making food Bubble tea is almost as popular and generally known as the best in China.It's common for deliveries of steamy cups of creamy tea to show up at the office daily. Even though bubble tea has permeated the globe, China is still the place to try it out. There are thousands of bubble tea shops throughout China and Sanlitun is a home to many well-known shops. We will try one of the best milktea during our tour. Bubble Tea Shop Various types of bubble tea During the tour, we recommend some Chinese special snacks as well, such as a Chinese burger, fried tofu, a flat bread, etc. All the hidden gems should not be revealed until you discover them by yourself in this walk tour! Just stay hungry! And remember, food at your own expense, as everyone in the group is free to choose what they like to eat. So we suggest you to bring some RMB cash with you. Guests eat together Buy your favorite food 5:10 - 7:30 PMEnjoy Delicious Food Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. Begin the tour at the food square in Sanlitun. You can taste Chinese cusine, Japanese speciality, fancy desert, dirty bread, yogurt with full of design, and drinks. You will try 4-5 types of food. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. We will lead you to the best bakery hidden in Sanlitun, the dirty chocolate croissants you should never miss it. Also you will have a chance to see the process of making delicious food by professional chefs. Taste in a noodle bar Most popular dirty chocolate croissant Chef is making food Bubble tea is almost as popular and generally known as the best in China.It's common for deliveries of steamy cups of creamy tea to show up at the office daily. Even though bubble tea has permeated the globe, China is still the place to try it out. There are thousands of bubble tea shops throughout China and Sanlitun is a home to many well-known shops. We will try one of the best milktea during our tour. Bubble Tea Shop Various types of bubble tea During the tour, we recommend some Chinese special snacks as well, such as a Chinese burger, fried tofu, a flat bread, etc. All the hidden gems should not be revealed until you discover them by yourself in this walk tour! Just stay hungry! And remember, food at your own expense, as everyone in the group is free to choose what they like to eat. So we suggest you to bring some RMB cash with you. Guests eat together Buy your favorite food Since every group has different food preference, we will personalize the route to make you an enjoyable experience. Begin the tour at the food square in Sanlitun. You can taste Chinese cusine, Japanese speciality, fancy desert, dirty bread, yogurt with full of design, and drinks. You will try 4-5 types of food. You 'd better discuss with your mouth and stomach, what would be the first one to satisfy your taste buds. We will lead you to the best bakery hidden in Sanlitun, the dirty chocolate croissants you should never miss it. Also you will have a chance to see the process of making delicious food by professional chefs. Taste in a noodle bar Most popular dirty chocolate croissant Bubble tea is almost as popular and generally known as the best in China.It's common for deliveries of steamy cups of creamy tea to show up at the office daily. Even though bubble tea has permeated the globe, China is still the place to try it out. There are thousands of bubble tea shops throughout China and Sanlitun is a home to many well-known shops. We will try one of the best milktea during our tour. Various types of bubble tea During the tour, we recommend some Chinese special snacks as well, such as a Chinese burger, fried tofu, a flat bread, etc. All the hidden gems should not be revealed until you discover them by yourself in this walk tour! Just stay hungry! And remember, food at your own expense, as everyone in the group is free to choose what they like to eat. So we suggest you to bring some RMB cash with you. Buy your favorite food 7:30 – 8:00 PMExplore Fashion Shops TIn addition to discovery food, Sanlitun gathers the most complete fashion brand stores in Beijing. Many street fashion trendsetters are from Sanlitun, when mention of Sanlitun, people know that it is the birthplace of the trend. We will lead you to explore these famous stores, take some IN photos to blow up your social networking sites. A fashion store 7:30 – 8:00 PMExplore Fashion Shops TIn addition to discovery food, Sanlitun gathers the most complete fashion brand stores in Beijing. Many street fashion trendsetters are from Sanlitun, when mention of Sanlitun, people know that it is the birthplace of the trend. We will lead you to explore these famous stores, take some IN photos to blow up your social networking sites. A fashion store TIn addition to discovery food, Sanlitun gathers the most complete fashion brand stores in Beijing. Many street fashion trendsetters are from Sanlitun, when mention of Sanlitun, people know that it is the birthplace of the trend. We will lead you to explore these famous stores, take some IN photos to blow up your social networking sites. Price Include: Group up to 4 people. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Food fee. (Average cost is between 120-150 yuan per person). Price Include: Group up to 4 people. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Food fee. (Average cost is between 120-150 yuan per person). Price Include: Group up to 4 people. Friendly local English-speaking guide. Price Exclude: Hotel pick-up and drop-off. Food fee. (Average cost is between 120-150 yuan per person). • Group up to 4 people. • Friendly local English-speaking guide. • Hotel pick-up and drop-off. • Food fee. (Average cost is between 120-150 yuan per person). FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 58 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 58 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 58 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20