ID: 3cb055d917561cb8
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Guizhou and Zhangjiajie (2026) — Itineraries, Costs…
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-guizhou-and-zhangjiajie.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Guizhou and Zhangjiajie, two of China's most captivating travel destinations, beckon travelers with their stunning natural beauty and diverse minority cultures. They would allow you to gain unique insights into ethnic traditions and enjoy spectacular natural scenery. This article will guide you through the steps to plan a hassle-free trip, with recommended attractions, a suggested itinerary, transportation, costs, and the best times to visit. • Highlights of Guizhou and Zhangjiajie • How Long to Stay in Guizhou and Zhangjiajie • A Suggested Guizhou and Zhangjiajie Itinerary • Transfer between Guizhou and Zhangjiajie • How Much Is a Trip to Guizhou and Zhangjiajie • Best Times to Visit Guizhou and Zhangjiajie • Accommodation Choices in Guizhou and Zhangjiajie Highlights of Guizhou and Zhangjiajie Top Experiences in Guizhou Batik making in Matang Ge Village The distinctive allure of Guizhou lies in its rich minority cultures, splendid scenery, and the exploration of ancient towns. Minority culture experiences In Guizhou, a melting pot of many of China's 55 ethnic minorities, immerse yourself in the vibrant customs of the Miao and Dong villages, characterized by traditional wooden architecture. Immerse yourself in the vibrant customs of the Miao and Dong minorities through welcome ceremonies, long-table banquets, and bonfire parties. Get deep insights into ethnic traditions with handicraft experiences, such as paper-making, making silver ornaments, fabric dyeing, and batik making. Or celebrate the Lusheng Festival with locals for a unique ethnic experience. It could be an interesting experience for kids and a good way to learn about Chinese ethnic cultures. Natural scenery appreciation Guizhou's most popular landscapes provide a blend of two contrasting scenes: awe-inspiring and spectacular natural wonders, such as Huangguoshu Waterfall and Mount Fanjing, alongside the enchanting and gorgeous blossom oceans in Baili Azalea Forest Park and Pingba Farm — ideal destinations for families or couples. Ancient towns exploration Xijiang Miao Village and Zhaoxing Dong Village are renowned for their large sizes and their unique ethnic wooden buildings. Zhenyuan Ancient Town showcases the charm of cyan riverside scenery and well-preserved Ming and Qing dynasty (1368–1912) architecture. Top Experiences in Zhangjiajie Our guest in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Zhangjiajie is a visually striking destination distinguished by sandstone pillars in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, where you could witness Avatar Hallelujah Mountain, named after the floating rocks in the movie Avatar, which Zhangjiajie in part inspired. Another renowned attraction is Tianmen Mountain, where you could marvel at huge Tianmen Cave and take a long cable car ride over the lush forests. Additionally, the glass bridge in Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon offers a heart-pounding experience and jade Baofeng Lake, surrounded by lush mountains, allows you to get lost in tranquility. Option: You could witness a captivating fusion of Miao and Tujia minorities in Fenghuang Ancient Town near Zhangjiajie, where you could also appreciate the splendid golden night scenery as well as the unique stilted buildings. How Many Days to Spend in Guizhou and Zhangjiajie For a comprehensive exploration of Guizhou and Zhangjiajie, it's recommended to plan for a trip lasting 8–10 days. Guizhou is a province with a relatively large area and scattered attractions. It's advisable to allocate a week to fully discover the ethnic minority cultures and stunning natural scenery. Visiting Zhangjiajie typically requires 3–4 days since the attractions are mainly concentrated in Wulingyuan Scenic Area. If you are interested in exploring ancient towns or minority cultures in Hunan, you could extend your trip by 1–2 days for Fenghuang Ancient Town. Suggested 10-Day Guizhou and Zhangjiajie Itinerary This 10-day Guizhou and Zhangjiajie trip is well-suited for those who delight in experiencing the splendor of nature. It also blends in minority experiences such as crafts so that you would enjoy a diverse journey. 10-day Guizhou and Zhangjiajie Route • Day 1: Arrive in Guiyang • Day 2: Huangguoshu Waterfall and Ground Opera • Days 3–4: Experience minority life including crafts in Kaili • Day 5: Zhenyuan gorge cruise • Day 6: Mount Fanjing hiking trip • Day 7: Transfer to Fenghuang Ancient Town • Day 8: Transfer to Zhangjiajie and visit Zhangjiajie National Forest Park • Day 9: The glass bridge in Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon and Baofeng Lake • Day 10: Tianmen Mountain and Zhangjiajie departure 10-Day Guizhou and Zhangjiajie TourNatural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List 10-Day Guizhou and Zhangjiajie TourNatural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List 10-Day Guizhou and Zhangjiajie TourNatural Wonder Discovery, on UNESCO's List The day after you arrive in Guiyang, begin with visiting the spectacular Huangguoshu Waterfall, then appreciate a Ground Opera performance, which echoes the majestic waterfall with rugged music and expressive movements. Afterward, delve into Kaili's authentic villages to continue your minority exploration, where you could witness the real-life activities of Miao minorities. See the azure batik fabric fluttering in the wind or the freshly-colored petal-leaf paper arranged in the shadows. Create your unique paper crafts and participate in dyeing batiks, immersing yourself in the plain idyllic life with your family or loved one. Next, admire the serene scenery in Zhenyuan Ancient Town with a river cruise and then embark on a hiking adventure up Mount Fanjing in Tongren. Then, you would be transferred to Fenghuang Ancient Town, which is located between Guizhou and Zhangjiajie. After your tour of Fenghuang, head to Zhangjiajie to explore the breathtaking landscape, visiting Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon, Tianmen Mountain, and Baofeng Lake. If your time is limited, we recommend that you skip the glass bridge in Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon, since the glass skywalk on Tianmen Mountain that hangs on the precipitous cliffs could also offer you a thrilling experience. As specialists in tailor-made travel, our suggested itinerary is flexible and would be customized to suit your preferences. Just let us know your desires, and we would create a personalized journey for you and your partner/family/group. Transferring between Guizhou and Zhangjiajie There are no direct flights or trains connecting Guizhou and Zhangjiajie. Both trains and flights require transfers, which could take anywhere from half an hour to a day. Therefore, our top recommendation is a private transfer as many attractions, especially in Guizhou, are scattered along the route from Guiyang to Zhangjiajie. A private car provides convenience and flexibility for sightseeing along the way, saving time and offering greater flexibility. On a tour with us, you would have a guide and driver accompanying you throughout the journey, taking care of your group's needs, whether it's visiting attractions or any other requirements, ensuring a seamless experience. How Much Is a Trip to Guizhou and Zhangjiajie? A private trip to Guizhou and Zhangjiajie typically costs between US$230 and US$250 per person per day, including 4- or 5-star hotels, lunches, attractions, guides, and private transport. In Guizhou and Zhangjiajie, transportation costs could be a major part of your travel budget. Cars are commonly used. Attractions are often located in remote areas, particularly in Guizhou, which typically take 1–3 hours to reach. Our private tour package ensures excellent value for money, offering a cost-effective means to fully immerse yourself in the experience without compromising on quality. 9-Day Minority Discovery in Zhangjiajie,Fenghuang and GuizhouChinese Ethnic Minority Discovery 9-Day Minority Discovery in Zhangjiajie,Fenghuang and GuizhouChinese Ethnic Minority Discovery 9-Day Minority Discovery in Zhangjiajie,Fenghuang and GuizhouChinese Ethnic Minority Discovery Best Times to Visit Guizhou and Zhangjiajie In Zhangjiajie and Guizhou, the natural scenery varies with the seasons while ancient town exploration and minority discovery are not affected by the weather too much. You could choose the best time to visit based on your preferences and interests. Autumn, especially from September to October (except for National Day from October 1st to 7th), is an ideal time to visit with cool and dry weather, typically ranging from 15 to 25°C (59 to 77°F), fewer crowds, and pleasant scenery, such as golden terraced fields and red maples. In spring (excluding May Day from May 1st to 5th), you could enjoy vibrant blooms and the celebration of numerous minority festivals. It tends to be more rainy, cloudy, and humid. You could experience handicrafts indoors in Miao villages if it rains. Summer is when many go to Guizhou/Zhangjiajie to avoid the heat elsewhere in China. Summer temperatures in Guizhou typically range from 15 to 25°C (59 to 77°F). This is also when Huangguoshu Waterfall is most spectacular and terraced fields are verdant. You would experience large crowds during the summer vacation (July to August), but compared to other popular tourist destinations in China, Guizhou tends to have relatively fewer visitors except for at Huangguoshu Waterfall. November to March is the tourist off-season. You may have the chance to admire rime and pure snowscapes in winter or early spring and also expect a quieter travel experience. Guizhou experiences mild winters with temperatures of about 5–10°C (41–50°F) while Zhangjiajie could be colder. Accommodation Tips in Guizhou and Zhangjiajie Recommended Areas to Stay In in Guizhou It's advisable to stay in Guiyang upon your arrival and also after visiting Huangguoshu Waterfall as it is conveniently accessible to this attraction. Spend your night in Kaili if you want to explore authentic Miao villages, as you would enjoy better accommodation. Most minority villages provide limited accommodation. However, if you visit large and relatively-commercial villages, such as Xijiang Miao Village, you could stay nearby, since they offer both enchanting scenery and comfortable accommodation. Stay around the scenic area if you intend to visit Zhenyuan Ancient Town or Mount Fanjing. These destinations lie between Guiyang and Zhangjiajie, and are also quite far from other attractions, so staying locally is recommended. Recommended Areas to Stay In in Fenghuang and Zhangjiajie Stay in Fenghuang Ancient Town to embrace the splendid night scenery. Accommodation in Fenghuang is diverse and well-equipped, and you could also admire captivating scenery from the windows. The most recommended option in Zhangjiajie is to stay in Wulingyuan. Most attractions are concentrated in this area, so you could enjoy the convenience it provides.