ID: 205ed8cf231adf4d
Title: How to Travel to Zhangjiajie by Flights and Trains
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/zhangjiajie/transportation.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Zhangjiajie is a famous tourist destination but only a small Chinese city. As such it is moderately accessible by air and train from the major tourism cities in China, such as Beijing, Xi'an, Shanghai, and Chengdu,. The most convenient way is by air. Local transport includes buses from the city to the national park. Getting to Zhangjiajie by Air Zhangjiajie Hehua ('Lotus Flower') Airport offers direct flights to and from Beijing, Shanghai, Xi'an, Guangzhou, Hong Kong, Kunming, and other important cities. Most flights arrive in Zhangjiajie in the evening. If there are no direct flights from your city, such as Guilin, consider taking a connecting flight or a bullet train. The airport is located in Yongding District, 4 km (2.5 mi) from the center of Zhangjiajie City. Airport shuttle buses and city bus 401 and 402 operate from the airport to the downtown area. If you choose to travel by taxi, the cost is approximately 50 yuan. Getting to Zhangjiajie by Train Zhangjiajie is linked by rail directly to most cities in China, including Changsha (approximately 2.5 hours), Beijing (approximately 11 hours), Shanghai (approximately 9 hours), Guangzhou (approximately 6 hours), Shenzhen (approximately 7 hours), Guilin (approximately 7.5 hours), Wuhan (approximately 5 hours), and Hong Kong (approximately 6.5 hours). There are two train stations in Zhangjiajie, Zhangjiajie Railway Station and Zhangjiajie West Railway Station. All the bullet trains to Zhangjiajie will arrive at Zhangjiajie West Railway Station. It takes about 30 minutes by driving between these two stations. Zhangjiajie Railway Station is 2 kilometers south of the city center, and 1 kilometer from the cableway station for Tianmen Mountain. From Zhangjiajie West Railway Station, it is about a 30-minute drive to Tianmen Mountain. Recommended Tours: 5-Day Zhangjiajie Hiking and Biking Tour for Any Level 4-Day Essence of Zhangjiajie Tour • 5-Day Zhangjiajie Hiking and Biking Tour for Any Level • 4-Day Essence of Zhangjiajie Tour How to Get from Downtown Zhangjiajie to Zhangjiajie Scenic Area Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, located in the Wulingyuan area is about 30 km (18 mi) from central Zhangjiajie. The most convenient and hassle-free way to travel from Zhangjiajie airport, train station, or downtown area to the national park is by taking a private tour with an English-speaking guide. Your guide will help you find the best photo spots, show you less crowded routes, and assist with any ticket issues. If you want to customize a private tour of Zhangjiajie, you can explore our 4-Day Essence of Zhangjiajie Tour, which includes Zhangjiajie National Park and the Glass Bridge. Another option is to take a taxi, which typically costs around CNY 100. Most taxi drivers in China accept online payments via WeChat or Alipay. (Check out How to Pay in China) Read more about How to Travel from Zhangjiajie to Wulingyuan How to Get from Zhangjiajie to Fenghuang Ancient Town You can get from Zhangjiajie to Fenghuang by taking a bullet train, which takes about 1 hour. There are more than 10 bullet trains departing daily from Zhangjiajie West Railway Station to Fenghuang Ancient Town Railway Station. You can use the China Highlights train ticket service to instantly check ticket prices per seat category and times depending on the day you want to go, or to find out the latest availability. We also recommend a private transfer, as a car journey takes just under 3½ hours. It is convenient, and a private transfer allows you to make some stops along the way for sightseeing. How to Get to Zhangjiajie from Changsha There is no flight from Changsha to Zhangjiajie. We recommend traveling by bullet train as it is the most efficient option. It takes approximately 2-3 hours. The trains depart from either Changsha Railway Station or Changsha South Railway Station and arrive at Zhangjiajie West Railway Station. Multiple trains operate throughout the morning, afternoon, and evening. By Bus: The bus from Changsha to Zhangjiajie leaves from Changsha West Bus Station. It departs daily at 14:00. The driving time is approximately 4 hours. The arrival station is Zhangjiajie Central Bus Station. Tickets for this route are around 100 RMB. You can buy the ticket at the bus station. To secure a seat, it is suggested that you buy it at least one day in advance. Zhangjiajie is 376 kilometers from Changsha. The journey takes 4–5 hours by bus from any bus station in the city. They depart from 10:30 to 19:00, and the ticket price is around 130 yuan. Suggested reading: How to Travel from Changsha to Zhangjiajie How to Get to Zhangjiajie from Beijing The distance from Beijing to Zhangjiajie is 1,593 km (990 miles), and there are both bullet trains and airplanes connecting the two cities.. The most convenient way is to fly from Beijng to Zhangjiajie directly. It takes about 2.5 hours. If you cannot get a direct flight ticket, you can make a transit in another city or take the bullet train to Zhangjiajie with a journey approximately 11 hours. Trains traveling from Beijing to Zhangjiajie depart from Beijing West Railway Station and arrive at Zhangjiajie West Railway Station. Recommended Top China Tours including Zhangjiajie: Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Yangtze River – Shanghai Recommended Top China Tours including Zhangjiajie: • Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai • Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Yangtze River – Shanghai How to Get to Zhangjiajie from Shanghai Zhangjiajie can be a perfect weekend destination for expats or business people in Shanghai as the transportation is convenient. There are 3 to 4 direct flights daily, departing either in the early morning around 7 a.m., late evening around 7 p.m., or at night around 8:30 p.m. The flight from Shanghai to Zhangjiajie takes about 2 and a half hours. There is one bullet train daily from Shanghai to Zhangjiajie. It departs from Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station at 12:41 and arrives at Zhangjiajie West Railway Station at 21:55, with the journey lasting approximately 9 hours.. Read more about How to Travel from Shanghai to Zhangjiajie or check out our 6 Days Zhangjiajie Tour from Shanghai for inspiration. How to Get to Zhangjiajie from Chengdu Zhangjiajie is 897 km (557 mi) from Chengdu. Many travelers choose to visit Zhangjiajie after their Chengdu tours. There are daily flights to Zhangjiajie from Chengdu. Direct flights take approximately 1.5 hours. Tickets start at approximately 125 USD but will double or triple in the lead up to peak season. You are suggested to check for flights before planning your trip to Zhangjiajie. When traveling by train from Chengdu to Zhangjiajie, you will need to make a transfer in either Changsha or Huaihua. The total train journey will take approximately 10 hours. Read more about How to Travel from Chengdu to Zhangjiajie How to Get to Zhangjiajie from Guangzhou It is very convenient to travel from Guangzhou to Zhangjiajie as there are direct flights and more than 10 high-speed trains between the two cities daily. There is one direct flight available from Guangzhou to Zhangjiajie each day except on Thursday. The flight takes approximately 2 hours. On Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday, the flight departs around 6:30 am. On Tuesday and Saturday, the flight departs around 12:00 pm. Read more about How to Travel from Guangzhou to Zhangjiajie How to Get to Zhangjiajie from Guilin There is no direct flight between Zhangjiajie and Guilin, but a bullet train departs daily. The train journey takes around 7.5 hours. The train will stop at Fenghuang Ancient Town at around 9 pm. Therefore, if you are interested in exploring one of the most beautiful towns in China, you can take a 6.5-hour bullet train from Guilin to Fenghuang, stay for one or two nights, and then take another 1.5-hour bullet train to Zhangjiajie. Read more about How to Travel from Guilin to Zhangjiajie Touring Zhangjiajie with China Highlights Touring Zhangjiajie with us Want to enjoy a hassle-free Zhangjiajie tour? Using our comprehensive experience, we will find the best Zhangjiajie transportation solutions and other arrangements for you. Contact us to start tailor-making your tour. Here are our most popular Zhangjiajie tour ideas for your reference: • 5-Day Zhangjiajie Hiking and Biking Tour for Any Level • 4-Day Essence of Zhangjiajie Tour • 1-Day Zhangjiajie National Forest Park Tour