ID: 21103a01c9b7e89d
Title: Chengdu Tours 2026: Hotpot & a Slow-Paced Escape
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/sg/chengdu/tours.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Chengdu is famous for its pandas, spicy mala food, old streets, Sichuan opera face-changing, and relaxing lifestyle. With over 20 years of experience, we know most visitors want to go beyond the brochures and ads. We'll help you do just that. Whether you want a deep dive into Chengdu or a quick trip to nearby cities (less than 2 hours by plane or 3 by train), your personal travel advisor will craft the perfect trip for you. The itineraries below are what our clients have taken over the past year. You can book the same or customize it to your preferences. Let's show you the real Chengdu - warm, authentic, and unforgettable. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. Chengdu is famous for its pandas, spicy mala food, old streets, Sichuan opera face-changing, and relaxing lifestyle. With over 20 years of experience, we know most visitors want to go beyond the brochures and ads. We'll help you do just that. Whether you want a deep dive into Chengdu or a quick trip to nearby cities (less than 2 hours by plane or 3 by train), your personal travel advisor will craft the perfect trip for you. The itineraries below are what our clients have taken over the past year. You can book the same or customize it to your preferences. Let's show you the real Chengdu - warm, authentic, and unforgettable. Chengdu is famous for its pandas, spicy mala food, old streets, Sichuan opera face-changing, and relaxing lifestyle. With over 20 years of experience, we know most visitors want to go beyond the brochures and ads. We'll help you do just that. Whether you want a deep dive into Chengdu or a quick trip to nearby cities (less than 2 hours by plane or 3 by train), your personal travel advisor will craft the perfect trip for you. The itineraries below are what our clients have taken over the past year. You can book the same or customize it to your preferences. Let's show you the real Chengdu - warm, authentic, and unforgettable. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. With China Highlights, your travel will be: • FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. • ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. • No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. Top Private Chengdu Tours & Surrounding Cities These week-long itineraries are popular among travelers. Don't hesitate to tell us if you have your own ideas for designing a trip. 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou View More 4-Day Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Tibetan Dress Photo Shoot View More 5-Day Chengdu Food, Faith & Scenic Wonders Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei View More 7-Day Chongqing and Chengdu Tour Chongqing, Wulong Karst, Dazu Rock Carving, and Chengdu View More 6-Day Chengdu Winter Tour Chengdu, Xiling Snow Mountain, Hot Spring, and Anren Ancient Town View More 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Chongqing View More 9-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Zhangjiajie Nature Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, Mount Qingcheng, and Zhangjiajie View More 8-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Xi'an Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Xi'an View More 3-Day Mount Siguniang Tour from Chengdu Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang View More 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao View More 6-Day Sichuan Adventure with Yala Snow Mountain from Chengdu Wolong Panda Center, Mt. Siguniang, Danba Tibetan Village, Yala Snow Mountain, and Tagong Grassland View More 5-Day Daocheng and Yading Tour from Chengdu Xinduqiao, Litang Grassland, Yading, and Daocheng (September and October) View More Travelers Love China Highlights Top China Tours including Chengdu Take a look at these carefully curated tours that include Chengdu, all expertly tailored to fit different schedules and destinations. 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu Educational Tour Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu View More 10-Day Golden Triangle and Panda Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai View More 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, and Shanghai View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/ Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More Top Private Chengdu Tours & Surrounding Cities These week-long itineraries are popular among travelers. Don't hesitate to tell us if you have your own ideas for designing a trip. 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou View More 4-Day Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Tibetan Dress Photo Shoot View More 5-Day Chengdu Food, Faith & Scenic Wonders Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei View More 7-Day Chongqing and Chengdu Tour Chongqing, Wulong Karst, Dazu Rock Carving, and Chengdu View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou View More Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou 4-Day Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Tibetan Dress Photo Shoot View More 4-Day Jiuzhaigou Nature and Culture Exploration Tour Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Tibetan Dress Photo Shoot View More Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Tibetan Dress Photo Shoot 5-Day Chengdu Food, Faith & Scenic Wonders Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei View More 5-Day Chengdu Food, Faith & Scenic Wonders Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei View More Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei 7-Day Chongqing and Chengdu Tour Chongqing, Wulong Karst, Dazu Rock Carving, and Chengdu View More 7-Day Chongqing and Chengdu Tour Chongqing, Wulong Karst, Dazu Rock Carving, and Chengdu View More Chongqing, Wulong Karst, Dazu Rock Carving, and Chengdu 6-Day Chengdu Winter Tour Chengdu, Xiling Snow Mountain, Hot Spring, and Anren Ancient Town View More 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Chongqing View More 9-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Zhangjiajie Nature Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, Mount Qingcheng, and Zhangjiajie View More 8-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Xi'an Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Xi'an View More 6-Day Chengdu Winter Tour Chengdu, Xiling Snow Mountain, Hot Spring, and Anren Ancient Town View More 6-Day Chengdu Winter Tour Chengdu, Xiling Snow Mountain, Hot Spring, and Anren Ancient Town View More Chengdu, Xiling Snow Mountain, Hot Spring, and Anren Ancient Town 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Chongqing View More 8-Day Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou and Chongqing Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Chongqing View More Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Chongqing 9-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Zhangjiajie Nature Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, Mount Qingcheng, and Zhangjiajie View More 9-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Zhangjiajie Nature Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, Mount Qingcheng, and Zhangjiajie View More Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, Mount Qingcheng, and Zhangjiajie 8-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Xi'an Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Xi'an View More 8-Day Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu and Xi'an Tour Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Xi'an View More Chengdu, Jiuzhaigou, Huanglong, and Xi'an 3-Day Mount Siguniang Tour from Chengdu Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang View More 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao View More 6-Day Sichuan Adventure with Yala Snow Mountain from Chengdu Wolong Panda Center, Mt. Siguniang, Danba Tibetan Village, Yala Snow Mountain, and Tagong Grassland View More 5-Day Daocheng and Yading Tour from Chengdu Xinduqiao, Litang Grassland, Yading, and Daocheng (September and October) View More 3-Day Mount Siguniang Tour from Chengdu Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang View More 3-Day Mount Siguniang Tour from Chengdu Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang View More Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao View More 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao View More Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao 6-Day Sichuan Adventure with Yala Snow Mountain from Chengdu Wolong Panda Center, Mt. Siguniang, Danba Tibetan Village, Yala Snow Mountain, and Tagong Grassland View More 6-Day Sichuan Adventure with Yala Snow Mountain from Chengdu Wolong Panda Center, Mt. Siguniang, Danba Tibetan Village, Yala Snow Mountain, and Tagong Grassland View More Wolong Panda Center, Mt. Siguniang, Danba Tibetan Village, Yala Snow Mountain, and Tagong Grassland 5-Day Daocheng and Yading Tour from Chengdu Xinduqiao, Litang Grassland, Yading, and Daocheng (September and October) View More 5-Day Daocheng and Yading Tour from Chengdu Xinduqiao, Litang Grassland, Yading, and Daocheng (September and October) View More Xinduqiao, Litang Grassland, Yading, and Daocheng (September and October) Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Top China Tours including Chengdu Take a look at these carefully curated tours that include Chengdu, all expertly tailored to fit different schedules and destinations. 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu Educational Tour Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu View More 10-Day Golden Triangle and Panda Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai View More 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, and Shanghai View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/ Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu Educational Tour Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu View More 10-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu Educational Tour Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu View More Beijing, Xi'an, and Chengdu 10-Day Golden Triangle and Panda Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai View More 10-Day Golden Triangle and Panda Family Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, and Shanghai 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, and Shanghai View More 2-Week China Essence and Panda Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Chongqing, and Shanghai 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/ Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More 21-Day China Tour with Silk Road Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/ Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Zhangye, Dunhuang, Turpan/ Urumqi, Kashgar, Chengdu, Zhangjiajie, and Shanghai Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice