ID: 32d9f1a1762d4539
Title: Where to Stay in Yangshuo: Which Hotel is Best for Me
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/guilin/article-yangshuo-boutique-hotels.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-09-17T00:00:00
================================================================================

Yangshuo is a small town renowned for its scenery, even more charming than Guilin City, making it a perfect choice for a vacation with a rural vibe. However, the countless hotels available could be a challenge. Which area of Yangshuo is best for your vacation? Read on to find out. Which Area Should I Stay in Yangshuo? Typically, staying in the Shili Gallery Area is our top recommendation to enjoy stunning karst scenery and a tranquil countryside vibe you've always dreamed of, perfect for first-timers, families with children, and senior couples. • Yangshuo The Tong Resort: from USD 330 per night. • Yangshuo Sugar House: from USD 260 per night. • Yangshuo Yuyuan Resort: from USD 90 per night. • Yangshuo Moondance Boutique Resort: from USD 105 per night. • Yangshuo Mountain Retreat: from USD 74 per night. Immerse Yourself in the Yangshuo Countryside If you prefer modern style with convenient transportation, stay in the West Street Area for its bustling atmosphere and vibrant nightlife, which could be the first choice for active couples and youngsters. • Shixi Landscape Hotel: from USD 70 per night. • Yangshuo LISA'S Hotel: from USD 42 per night. • Yangshuo Lijing Resort: from USD 80 per night. West Street Offers a More Bustling Experience in Yangshuo While for shutterbugs and hiking enthusiasts, staying in Xingping Ancient Town Area can greatly shorten your travel time to the photography spots, such as Xianggong Mountain, Damian Hill, and Nine Horse Fresco Hills. You can easily embark on popular hiking routes to explore the Li River on foot, since Xingping Ancient Town is a starting or ending stop of most. • Yangshuo Misty Wonderland: from USD 345 per night. • Hilton Garden Inn Guilin Yangshuo: from USD 105 per night. • Lihua Chen's Garden Hotel: from USD 65 per night. It is Popular to Photograph Fishermen Fishing For travelers seeking a more private and luxurious stay, especially for those who enjoy a staycation holiday, Yangshuo offers a selection of boutique resorts hidden in tranquil villages. The trade-off is location: most are about 40–50 minutes by car from Yangshuo's main attractions, so private transfers are usually required. • Banyan Tree Yangshuo: from USD 260 per night. • VOCO Guilin Yangshuo: from USD 250 per night. • VISION VILLA: from USD 88 per night. A Good Hotel Can Also Be an Attraction that Allows You to Enjoy Yourself Yangshuo The Tong Resort (阳朔潼乡度假酒店) • Highlights: Luxurious facilities with personalized services; only 9 rooms are available; quiet location with stunning scenery. • Location: Zhudouzhai Village, Shili Gallery scenic spot, a 30-minute drive away from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 330 per night. Perfect for senior couples who value quiet and privacy, this hotel features just nine rooms, all fully equipped with premium facilities and great river views. Fewer guests allow for personalized service and exclusive experiences. You can enjoy yourself at the infinity pool with constant temperature all year round, or ride a bike for free to explore the area. If you want a more private experience, you can book the villa with a private pool, isolated from other guests and experience a secluded holiday. Yangshuo Sugar House (阳朔糖舍度假酒店) • Highlights: Retro industrial style with unique design; free bamboo rafting experiences; top-notch service and bedding. • Location: No. 102, Dongling Road, a 30-minute drive away from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 260 per night. For those who value unique hotel design style, Yangshuo Sugar House is a good blend of heritage setting and modernization, presenting a unique retro industrial style. The hotel got its name from its restoration and transformation from an old sugarcane factory. In order to showcase its unique historical features, the hotel has set up an ancient building model exhibition and traditional sugar-making activities, allowing you to spend some high-quality parent-child interaction time. Free Bamboo rafting on the Li River is available at the hotel, but remember to book in advance. Yangshuo Yuyuan Resort (阳朔遇源景舍) • Highlights: Neo-Chinese design; rich children's entertainment facilities. • Location: Longyanmen Village, a 15-minute drive away from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 90 per night. For families traveling with children, Yangshuo Yuyuan Resort is definitely worth considering. The hotel features relatively new facilities, including a variety of children's entertainment options spread across its large, approximately 2-acre lawn. You can enjoy fun activities like playing football, getting close to small animals, and visiting the hotel's own farm with your kids. The hotel also regularly organizes parent-child handicraft activities, making it a great choice for families who prefer quieter outings or a break from outdoor adventures. Yangshuo Moondance Boutique Resort (阳朔月舞度假酒店) • Highlights: Idyllic environment; wooden structure with modern design. • Location: No.1, Fenglou Village, a 20-minute drive away from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 105 per night. Yangshuo Moondance Boutique Resort If you want to enjoy the views of Moon Hill and Yulong River at once, the Yangshuo Moondance Boutique Resort should be your first choice. To let you experience the Chinese idyllic lifestyle, it is located in a local village adjacent to rapeseed fields and rice fields, which is great for active hikers to explore around and senior couples looking for a tranquil environment. It should be noted that the hotel only has stairs and no elevator. Although the staff can put the luggage in the room, it is not suitable for people with limited mobility. Yangshuo Mountain Retreat (阳朔胜地酒店) • Highlights: Serene escape with panoramic views; great location that is close to the Yulong River; good Western food. • Location: Fenglou Village Committee, a 20-minute drive away from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 74 per night. Yangshuo Mountain Retreat Although Yangshuo Mountain Retreat was opened in 2001 and its facilities are relatively old, it has a superior geographical location, just a stone's throw away from the Yulong River. With a best value of stay, its Western food is also authentic and well-received, which is budget-friendly and suitable for multi-generation families. Shixi Landscape Hotel (世熙天悦江景酒店) • Highlights: Great location to see the Li River and city views; a huge sky reflector on the 9th floor for photography. • Location: No.30, Guanlian Road, a 20-minute walk from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 70 per night. Shixi Landscape Hotel Shixi Landscape Hotel is only a 20-minute walk from West Street and a 5-minute bike ride away, making it a great choice for day trippers in Yangshuo or those who want to return to the hotel quickly after exploring the bustling night market. Located at an excellent spot, this hotel offers views of the Li River and the distant modern buildings and karst peaks, creating a perfect blend of modernity and nature. For those interested in photography, the hotel's massive "Sky Mirror" on the ninth floor captures both the sky and the landscape in your photos. Yangshuo LISA'S Hotel (云舞Lisa酒店) • Highlights: 24-hour free coffee; thai-food restaurant; French services available. • Location: No.10, Furong Road, a 10-minute walk from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 42 per night. Yangshuo LISA'S Hotel This 28-room hotel, formerly a renowned local café, is a must for coffee lovers. Its design leans towards a light French style and offers French services. You could expect its Thai restaurant that has been highly praised for years. What's more, there are simple vegetarian options available upon request. If you plan to stay in Yangshuo for a few days and happen to be visiting during the summer, we recommend that you enjoy a few cups of coffee in the hotel to escape the heat, and then go out to explore the bustling night market or rich evening performances as the sun sets. Yangshuo Lijing Resort (漓境度假酒店) • Highlights: Opened in 2023; very close to West Street; free wheelchair rental. • Location: No.19, Folded Green Road, a 10-minute walk from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 80 per night. Yangshuo Lijing Resort Yangshuo Lijing Resort is located near Yangshuo Park and Yangshuo People's Hospital, which is a 10-minute walk away from Yangshuo West Street. For food lovers, the night market of West Street is even downstairs away. You can also find wheelchair service, which is very suitable for people with mobility problems. For those who want to experience ethnic costume photography, the hotel can also provide a free in-hotel travel photography service to freeze your beauty. Yangshuo Misty Wonderland (阳朔画山云舍) • Highlights: Boundless waterscape; close to Xianggong Mountain for sunrise; quiet location. • Location: Dalingtou Village, a 5-minute drive away from Xianggong Hill, and a 1-hour drive to Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 345 per night. Yangshuo Misty Wonderland With its unique location on a mountain top, Yangshuo Misty Wonderland is the only hotel where you can get spectacular panoramic views of the Li River. This hotel is about a 5-minute drive from Xianggong Mountain and a 10-minute drive from Damian Hill, which are top photography spots in Yangshuo. Each room has a large balcony, courtyard, or patio, giving you space to spend time in nature. Make sure not to miss the boundless waterscape, which acts as a sky mirror and reflects the blue sky and the surrounding mountains. It should be noted that although this hotel is located in the Xingping Ancient Town area, it takes at least an hour and a half to drive to Xingping Ancient Town and Yangshuo Station because the road is blocked by the Li River. Please plan your travel well in advance to avoid traffic jams. Hilton Garden Inn Guilin Yangshuo (阳朔腾昇希尔顿花园酒店) • Highlights: Opened in 2024; international hotel chains; an intangible cultural heritage experience. • Location: No.63, Xinrong Street, a 10-minute walk away from Xianggong Hill. • Price: From USD 105 per night. Hilton Garden Inn Guilin Yangshuo First of all, it is a Hilton, so no need to worry about its services and bedding. The hotel has been well integrated into the local culture. There is an intangible cultural heritage experience hall in the lobby, which is suitable for parents to bring their children to experience Guangxi's traditional intangible cultural heritage projects such as making sachets, painting fans, and gemstone paintings. Lihua Chen's Garden Hotel (阳朔漓画陈家花园) • Highlights: Excellent Li River view; close to the Li River check-in point; free laundry and drying service. • Location: Ergenti Village, a 10-minute drive from Xingping ancient town. • Price: From USD 65 per night. Lihua Chen's Garden Hotel Lihua Chen's Garden Hotel is considered the best choice for day trippers traveling via Yangshuo Railway Station, since the hotel also offers free pick-up and drop-off service. As a 17-room hotel, it features excellent natural landscape of Li River, and is only a 10-minute drive from the 20 RMB check-in point, the Reflection of Yellow Cloth. You could not miss out the lookout terrace, which is made from crystal glass on the 5th floor. When you walk across the terrace, it will seem like you are walking in a painting with green bamboo, clear water, and lush mountains around you. Banyan Tree Yangshuo (阳朔悦榕庄) • Highlights: Residential architecture; luxury service; free ethnic costume rental and Li River bamboo rafting. • Location: Fuli Ancient Town, a 40-minute drive away from Yangshuo West Street. • Price: From USD 260 per night. Banyan Tree Yangshuo is located in Fuli Ancient Town, which is famous for its traditional Chinese paper fan paintings. To maintain a unified architectural style, the hotel is designed like other buildings in the village with their low height, gray tiles and white walls. To explore this area that is away from popular ones, you can fly high in the sky on a hot air balloon, walk along the Li River, or simply rent a bike to explore the surrounding nature. Join the sunset ceremony and experience the Li River bamboo rafting are also great ideas, but please remember to book with the hotel in advance. VOCO Guilin Yangshuo (桂林阳朔VOCO酒店) • Highlights: Opened in 2025; garden-style; infinity pools. • Location: No.72, Jiwodu Village, a 40-minute drive away from West Street. • Price: From USD 250 per night. As a hotel brand under IHG, VOCO Hotel adheres to its usual level of facilities and supporting facilities to make your stay worry-free. The hotel's garden-themed design, a restaurant with a pond reflecting the rice paddies, and an outdoor infinity pool allow you to connect with nature at all times. For families, you can book a suite with a courtyard and private hot spring, immersing yourself in the tranquility of the karst landscape, away from the hustle and bustle. VISION VILLA (阳朔万相·青谷民宿) • Highlights: Wonderful countryside views; open-air swimming pool. • Location: Xiatang Village, a 40-minute drive away from West Street. • Price: From USD 88 per night. Situated in a local village and even its rooms are renovated from local traditional houses, Vision Villa is surrounded by a large area of farmland with lush mountains. You can tell the air is clean and fresh here with the slight smell of grass. This is where you can truly slow down, away from the hustle. Staying in the hotel's simple rooms and getting close to the cows plowing the fields may be the closest you will ever get to the traditional Chinese countryside.