ID: 2e2fd19232861451
Title: Yunnan Weather in June 2026: Tour and Wear Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yunnan/weather-in-june.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

June is the warmest month in Yunnan but the weather is still pleasantly cool compared to most areas of China. You would also encounter fewer visitors and see vibrant scenery, making it ideal to tour Yunnan this month. The Dragon Boat Festival typically falls in June and you could enjoy diverse festival celebrations in different areas. Yunnan Weather in June In June, Yunnan's daily average temperatures vary between 18°C and 26°C (64–79°F). But the temperature also varies greatly between day and night. During the day, especially in sunny times, most areas are warm and comfortable, although Xishuangbanna could be a little hot. In the mornings, evenings, and during rainy periods, the weather is generally cool, except in Shangri-La, which would be a little cold at those times. The following are the daily average temperatures of the main cities in Yunnan in June: Region City Daytime Nighttime Central Kunming 24°C (75°F) 17°C (63°F) Dali 26°C (79°F) 15°C (59°F) North Lijiang 25°C (77°F) 13°C (55°F) Shangri-La 20°C (68°F) 8°C (46°F) South Xishuangbanna 32°C (90°F) 21°C (70°F) June is the beginning of the rainy season and the rainfall in Yunnan increases from the north to the central to the southern region. It may rain for half of the month but the showers are usually short-lived and light, not lasting all day. The rain won't affect your itinerary a lot. Most of the time, the weather alternates between sunny, cloudy, overcast, or with light rain throughout the day. But if you prefer outdoor activities like hiking, you would need to adjust your itinerary depending on the weather. 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan In Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang, lightweight clothes, such as T-shirts, trousers, and long dresses, are ideal for daytime wear, along with sun-protective clothing and comfortable shoes, while a thin coat is recommended for the nights. A waterproof jacket is needed while visiting the snow mountains. In Shangri-La, the cooler weather makes long sleeves and hoodies suitable for the daytime. For mornings, evenings, and rainy periods, winter jackets, sweaters, and hats are recommended. In Xishuangbanna, lightweight summer clothing, such as T-shirts and skirts, are ideal for wearing all day. Long, thin trousers are also recommended to protect against mosquitoes. In addition, Yunnan could also be dry during this month, with strong sunlight and UV rays (even during cloudy or rainy days). It is advisable to take hydrating skincare products and sunscreen. Top 5 Places to Visit in June As the warm temperature and rain in June bring more vibrant scenery, it is the best time to capture the beautiful sights of Lijiang and Shangri-La. The pleasant weather also makes it ideal to visit Kunming and Dali as well as Xishuangbanna. Dali is a popular destination in Yunnan and it sees fewer crowds in June compared to July and August. Although it experiences more showers, the skies would clear up quickly and you would be more likely to see rainbows and beautiful clouds over Er Lake. You could cycle (which is especially fun for families with kids) or drive around the lake, or take a leisurely cruise to enjoy the breeze, lake scenery, and Cang Mountain. If you're fond of an ancient town vibe, Dali also has many attractions to explore. June's quieter atmosphere makes it a great time to visit Dali Old Town (big and lively with diverse attractions), Xizhou Town (idyllic with a leisurely pace and filled with Bai ethnic architecture), and Shaxi Ancient Town ( authentic and historic, allowing for Tea Horse Road exploration). If you prefer festivals and an ethnic atmosphere, visit Dali Old Town during the Dragon Boat Festival. You would also experience the Bai people's Benzhu worship at the same time, with lively dragon and lion dances in bazaars, where you could find fabric monkey strings, five-colored ropes, and triangular rice dumplings. Recommended Tour: 8-Day Yunnan Tour with Dali Old Town, Xizhou and Shaxi. Spruce Meadow on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain Since the summer vacation hasn't arrived yet, Lijiang sees fewer visitors in June, offering a pleasantly quiet time to visit Lijiang Old Town. You could explore the Naxi culture, enjoy handicraft experiences, savor snacks, and experience vibrant nightlife activities. Blue Moon Valley and Spruce Meadow at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain also showcase lush and refreshing scenery in June, especially on sunny days. Since it is not the peak season, the waiting time for the cable car at Glacier Park is reduced. You could reach the summit to experience the awe brought about by being at the high altitude but most of the snow has melted by this time. If you enjoy stunning gorge landscapes, Tiger Leaping Gorge in June would impress you as the rain makes the river surge and flow more rapidly. For a leisurely scenic experience, you could visit Lugu Lake. The white flowers begin to bloom in June, making it ideal for viewing by boat. In early June, Shangri-La experiences less rain as its rainy season begins in late June. The weather is mostly clear or sunny and the natural scenery becomes revitalized during this month, making it ideal for viewing. For diverse visiting experiences combined with vibrant scenery, you could visit Napa Lake. It is a vast green grassland in June, perfect for cycling, horseback riding, stroking the lambs, or having a drink in a café. Alternatively, if you prefer to focus on enjoying the scenery rather than experiences, Pudacuo National Park is a great option with diverse beautiful scenery, including forests, meadows, lakes, and mountains. It is ideal for admiring by traveling in a sightseeing vehicle, taking a boat on the lake, or hiking. June is also the last month that is perfect for admiring captivating alpine azalea. The ideal viewing spots cover Bigu Lake and the pass of White Horse Snow Mountain. If you tour Shangri-La during the Dragon Boat Festival, you could also witness the spectacular Tibetan Horse Racing Festival, which is celebrated on the grasslands beside Napa Lake or the airport. Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden In June, short showers make Xishuangbanna cooler than in dry April and May. The weather may be a little hot during the day but not severely hot, while it is cool at night, making it suitable for outdoor activities. Xishuangbanna in June also offers a cost-effective budget in this tourist offseason and you would experience fewer visitors than in crowded July and August. You could visit Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden (the biggest one in China) as the tropical plants thrive due to the rain. In addition, June is also the best time to capture the spectacle of countless fireflies at night. The cool evenings in Xishuangbanna are ideal for exploring Starlight Night Market or Manting Park. You could enjoy the light shows, music, bars, song and dance performances, or savoring snacks, etc. Recommended Tour: 6-Day Xishuangbanna and Pu'er Tour. Kunming enjoys a comfortable cool temperature in June. The rain comes suddenly but also leaves just as quickly and mostly falls at night, so your daytime itinerary for outdoor activities would be less affected. If you want to know more about the local lifestyle, a visit to Green Lake Park is delightful. You could engage in activities like taiji, mahjong, or opera with local people. Alternatively, take a leisurely boat ride to admire the blossoming lotus flowers and feed the koi fish. You could also explore the popular Stone Forest and Dragon Gate Scenic Area in Western Hills as you could enjoy a better experience with the cool weather and fewer visitors. During the Dragon Boat Festival, you could also witness the dragon boat competitions in Haigeng Park. Compared to the following peak months (due to the summer vacation from July to August), June is ideal for touring Yunnan with fewer visitors and friendly travel expenses. Crowds: At the Dragon Boat Festival, you may encounter more visitors but not heavy crowds. The rest of the time in June, Yunnan is quieter, allowing you to avoid long queues and tight ticket availability. Costs: Most of the time, you could enjoy a relatively cost-effective budget. The accommodation fees and airfares remain at their normal prices in June, although they might be a little higher during the Dragon Boat Festival. Recommended Yunnan Tours • 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure Tour • 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour with Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang • 12-Day Yunnan and Zhangjiajie Tour