ID: f2d2c0b148306c7
Title: Plan a China Trip with a 10-Day (240-Hour) Visa-Free Transit Policy
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/visa-application/10-day-visa-free.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

As China continues to relax its visa policies, citizens from 43 countries, including Australia, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Singapore, Malaysia, and more, can now enjoy visa-free travel to China for up to 30 days. In addition, China now offers a 10-day visa-free transit policy to welcome international visitors further. Even if you're not from the 43 countries mentioned, such as the US, UK, or Canada, you can still enjoy a 10-day (11 days including the day of arrival) visa-free stay in China, provided you meet the following conditions: • You are from one of the 55 eligible countries. • Travel must be within the 10-day visa-free areas. Most regions in China are included, such as Beijing, Xi'an, Shanghai, Chengdu, and more. • You must be in transit to a third country or region. 10-Day Visa-Free Zones Most cities and regions in China can be visited under the 10-day visa-free transit policy. Within the permitted areas, you can choose your destinations freely. (Xinjiang, Tibet, Qinghai, Gansu, Ningxia, Inner Mongolia, and Jilin are not covered by the 10-day visa-free transit policy.) Here are some popular itineraries for your 10-day visa-free China trip (11 days if including the arrival day): • 11-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Guilin, and Shanghai Tour • 10-Day Beijing, Chongqing, Yangtze River Cruise, and Shanghai • 8-Day Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai Highlights Tour If you want to extend your trip to off-the-beaten-path destinations, such as Xinjiang, the Silk Road, or Tibet, we can assist you in applying for a port visa, eliminating the need for an in-person interview at the embassy. The cost is approximately $100 — half, or even less, than what you'd pay for a visa in your home country. Feel free to contact us to design your visa-free itinerary or apply for a port visa. 55 Countries Eligible for the Policy • Americans (six countries): Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, the Republic of Chile, the United States • European citizens (40 countries): Albania, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Kingdom • Oceanians (two countries): Australia, New Zealand • Asians (seven countries): Brunei, Japan, Qatar, Singapore, South Korea, the United Arab Emirates, and Indonesia Tips: Many of these countries enjoy a more convenient 30-day visa-free entry policy, such as France, Italy, New Zealand, Australia, Spain, and the UAE. See 30-Day Visa-Free Policy. Tips: Many of these countries enjoy a more convenient 30-day visa-free entry policy, such as France, Italy, New Zealand, Australia, Spain, and the UAE. See 30-Day Visa-Free Policy. Transit to a Third Country or Region Under the 10-day visa-free transit policy, you must continue to a third country or region (including Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan) after your stay in the Chinese mainland. Examples of valid and invalid itineraries: √ USA–Beijing–Xi'an–Shanghai–Hong Kong–USA √ Thailand–Beijing–Xi'an–Zhangjiajie–Chengdu–Hong Kong–Shanghai–USA Tips: Hong Kong is a great city that can be utilized to extend your 240-hour stay or as a third region for entry or exit. √ USA–Beijing–Shanghai–Xi'an–Japan × USA–Beijing–Shanghai–Xi'an–USA Japan, Thailand, Vietnam, South Korea, and Singapore are great options to combine with China in order to fully take advantage of the 10-day visa-free transit policy. These countries offer visa-free access for most countries or require only a simple eVisa application. Popular "China+" itineraries to inspire you: • 16-Day Japan and China Discovery Tour • 15-Day China and Thailand Highlights Tour • 19-Day Japan, China, Singapore, and Bali • 3-Week China and Vietnam Adventure Tour If you have more ideas, feel free to contact us. All of our tours can be customized/adjusted to fit your interests and requirements. 10-Day Visa-Free Visit to China in 5 Steps • Step 1: Choose to enter China through any of the following ports listed below. • Step 2: After arriving, follow the signs to the 240-hour visa-free entry counter. • Step 3: Present or complete the required documents as instructed by the staff, including your passport, hotel booking details, onward flight ticket to a third country, arrival/departure card, visa for the third country (if applicable), etc. • Step 4: Once completed, collect your luggage and proceed through customs. • Step 5: Exit the airport and begin your journey. List of Allowed Ports for the 10-Day Visa-Free Transit Policy Beijing Beijing Capital International Airport Beijing Daxing International Airport Tianjin Tianjin Binhai International Airport Tianjin Port (Passenger) Hebei Shijiazhuang Zhengding International Airport Qinhuangdao Port(Passenger) Liaoning Shenyang Taoxian International Airport Dalian Zhoushuizi International Airport Dalian Port (Passenger) Shanghai Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport Shanghai Pudong International Airport Shanghai Port (Passenger) Jiangsu Nanjing Lukou International Airport Sunan Shuofang International Airport Yangzhou Taizhou International Airport Lianyungang Port (Passenger) Zhejiang Hangzhou Xiaoshan International Airport Ningbo Lishe International Airport Wenzhou Longwan International Airport Yiwu Airport Wenzhou Port(Passenger) Zhoushan Port (Passenger) Anhui Hefei Xinqiao International Airport Huangshan Tunxi International Airport Fujian Fuzhou Changle International Airport Xiamen Gaoqi International Airport Quanzhou Jinjiang International Airport Wuyishan Airport Xiamen Port (Passenger) Shandong Jinan Yaoqiang International Airport Qingdao Jiaodong International Airport Yantai Penglai International Airport Weihai Dashuipo International Airport Qingdao Port (Passenger) Henan Zhengzhou Xinzheng International Airport Hubei Wuhan Tianhe International Airport Hunan Changsha Huanghua International Airport Zhangjiajie Hehua International Airport Guangdong Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport Shenzhen Bao'an International Airport Jieyang Chaoshan International Airport Nansha Port(Passenger) Shekou Port(Passenger) Hainan Haikou Meilan International Airport Sanya Phoenix International Airport Chongqing Chongqing Jiangbei International Airport Guizhou Guiyang Longdongbao International Airport Shaanxi Xi'an Xianyang International Airport Shanxi Taiyuan Wusu International Airport Heilongjiang Harbin Taiping International Airport Jiangxi Nanchang Changbei International Airport Guangxi Nanning Wuxu International Airport Guilin Liangjiang International Airport Beihai Fucheng Airport Beihai Port (Passenger) Sichuan Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport Chengdu Tianfu International Airport Yunnan Kunming Changshui International Airport Lijiang Sanyi International Airport Mohan Railway Port When you book a tour with China Highlights, we want to make sure your journey is as smooth and enjoyable as possible. Your friendly guide will meet you at the airport, holding a sign with your name, and escort you to your hotel. If you encounter any issues during the entry process, your guide or travel consultant will be ready to assist. How Are the 10 Days Calculated? The 10 days start from 00:00 on the day after entry. For example, if you enter Shanghai at 6am on June 1st, your 240 hours start from 00:00 on June 2nd, and you can stay until 23:59 on June 11th. In short, you can enjoy 11 visa-free days in China, including the day of arrival. 1. Can I travel across provinces with the policy? Yes, you can travel freely within the designated 24 provinces during your 10-day visa-free transit period, such as: • Beijing – Xi'an • Xi'an – Beijing – Shanghai • Shanghai – Chengdu – Yunnan (Tibet, Xinjiang, and Silk Road are not covered) 2. Can I enter the Chinese mainland by train from Hong Kong under the policy? No, but you can take a train to Hong Kong from the Chinese mainland, such as Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin – Hong Kong. 3. Is it possible to plan a trip like this: UK – Hong Kong – Beijing – Shanghai – Hong Kong – UK? No. Hong Kong belongs to China. ×UK – Hong Kong – Beijing – Shanghai – Hong Kong – UK √UK – Hong Kong – Beijing – Shanghai – Japan 4. What documents are required? • Your passport (valid for at least three months) • A confirmed onward ticket to a third country or region • Hotel booking confirmation 5. Can I enter through one port, like Beijing, and then exit from another, such as Shanghai? Yes, absolutely. You can enter or exit through any of the ports listed in the table above.