ID: 7e584945d3039eda
Title: Private Transfer Between Xi'an Airport/Train Stations and Hotel
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/xian/xian-airport-hotel-private-transfer.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ We aim to provide our customers a stress free transportation experience with prompt and reliable service, clean comfortable vehicles, courteous professional drivers and private door to door transfer service. We look forward to offering excellent customer service concerning all your transportation needs between hotel and airport or railway station. Our objective is to ensure you arrive at your destination on-time, relaxed and happy to use our services again. Transfer Types Our Vehicle Fleet Service Details (Take Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information Before you get to Xi'an, please find the information below via this link: https://www.trippest.com/track-your-trip/. All information will be updated only 24 hours ahead of your arrival date. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact your travel advisor. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Xi'an Airport, our driver will receive you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding the China Highlights / Trippest's sign with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. (We can provide the baby car seats for free if you request. Please specify in the "Special Request" form at the time of your booking, at least 3 days ahead). Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Your driver will help you with your luggage Map of Terminal 3 of Xi'an Xianyang Inernational Airport Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Service Price (USD/Per way/Per person) Transfer Types 1 pax 2 pax 3 pax 4 pax 5 pax 6 pax 7 pax 8 pax 9 pax 10 pax Xi'an Airport - Hotel $35 $17 $16 $13 $11 $11 $10 $9 $8 $7 Xi'anbei North Station - Hotel $27 $14 $13 $11 $8 $9 $8 $7 $6 $6 Xi'an Railway Station - Hotel $23 $11 $12 $10 $8 $7 $6 $6 $5 $5 Important Notes: This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (< age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. FAQs About This Tour What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Xi'an? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and train stations in Xi'an: Airports: Xi'an Xianyang International Airport (XIY) Train Stations: Xi'an Railway Station, Xi'an Bei North Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Xi'an City What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. Flights monitor APP What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. What should I do if my China visa expires? There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Xi'an can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different Confident and reliable We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. Selected Vehicles Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Xi'an tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. We Go Extra Miles! Poor air can be the most concern when you are travelling in Xi'an. There're good days. There're bad days. We tested the AOI in a smog day, the index is up to 260, even in a completely sealed car, the index is also up to 140. Generally speaking, an AQI level of 100 is generally seen as the upper limit for healthy air. So we equip with an air purifier in each vehicle. Experiment has proved that the index in car is down to 30. Don't let the bad weather day get you down. We are always doing our best to make you enjoy your trip better. Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Xi'an office address: Room 715, Unit 2 Building 2, Lijia Village Wanda Plaza, No.8 Yanta North Road, Beilin District We aim to provide our customers a stress free transportation experience with prompt and reliable service, clean comfortable vehicles, courteous professional drivers and private door to door transfer service. We look forward to offering excellent customer service concerning all your transportation needs between hotel and airport or railway station. Our objective is to ensure you arrive at your destination on-time, relaxed and happy to use our services again. We aim to provide our customers a stress free transportation experience with prompt and reliable service, clean comfortable vehicles, courteous professional drivers and private door to door transfer service. We look forward to offering excellent customer service concerning all your transportation needs between hotel and airport or railway station. Our objective is to ensure you arrive at your destination on-time, relaxed and happy to use our services again. Service Details (Take Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information Before you get to Xi'an, please find the information below via this link: https://www.trippest.com/track-your-trip/. All information will be updated only 24 hours ahead of your arrival date. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact your travel advisor. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Xi'an Airport, our driver will receive you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding the China Highlights / Trippest's sign with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. (We can provide the baby car seats for free if you request. Please specify in the "Special Request" form at the time of your booking, at least 3 days ahead). Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Your driver will help you with your luggage Map of Terminal 3 of Xi'an Xianyang Inernational Airport Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Service Details (Take Airport Transfer as An Example) Close All Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information Before you get to Xi'an, please find the information below via this link: https://www.trippest.com/track-your-trip/. All information will be updated only 24 hours ahead of your arrival date. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact your travel advisor. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Xi'an Airport, our driver will receive you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding the China Highlights / Trippest's sign with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. (We can provide the baby car seats for free if you request. Please specify in the "Special Request" form at the time of your booking, at least 3 days ahead). Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Your driver will help you with your luggage Map of Terminal 3 of Xi'an Xianyang Inernational Airport Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information Before you get to Xi'an, please find the information below via this link: https://www.trippest.com/track-your-trip/. All information will be updated only 24 hours ahead of your arrival date. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact your travel advisor. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity Before ArrivalGet Your Driver's Information Before you get to Xi'an, please find the information below via this link: https://www.trippest.com/track-your-trip/. All information will be updated only 24 hours ahead of your arrival date. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact your travel advisor. Driver's name Driver's contact number Vehicle's branding Vehicle's seating capacity Before you get to Xi'an, please find the information below via this link: https://www.trippest.com/track-your-trip/. All information will be updated only 24 hours ahead of your arrival date. If you failed in getting the information, please try to contact your travel advisor. • Driver's name • Driver's contact number • Vehicle's branding • Vehicle's seating capacity On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Xi'an Airport, our driver will receive you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding the China Highlights / Trippest's sign with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. (We can provide the baby car seats for free if you request. Please specify in the "Special Request" form at the time of your booking, at least 3 days ahead). Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Your driver will help you with your luggage Map of Terminal 3 of Xi'an Xianyang Inernational Airport Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. On ArrivalMeet Your Driver When you arrive at Xi'an Airport, our driver will receive you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding the China Highlights / Trippest's sign with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. Good to Know: Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. (We can provide the baby car seats for free if you request. Please specify in the "Special Request" form at the time of your booking, at least 3 days ahead). Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Your driver will help you with your luggage Map of Terminal 3 of Xi'an Xianyang Inernational Airport Important Note: Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. When you arrive at Xi'an Airport, our driver will receive you at the exit of luggage claim hall holding the China Highlights / Trippest's sign with the lead passenger's name. If there is any difficulty in locating the driver (this has never happened before), try the following procedure to get in touch with us: • Go to the information desk in arrival hall (staffs there speak English and are always ready to help), and ask the staff to make a phone call to your driver. • Call our 24/7 emergency line shown in our confirmation letter and ask for help. • Our driver can show you to the nearest toilet and money exchanger if you ask. • At the hotel, your driver will help you with luggage and check in formalities. • Our vehicles are equipped GPS devices. The trunks of our vehicles are spacious enough for you luggage. • Babies and children count as passengers even if they do not require their own seat. (We can provide the baby car seats for free if you request. Please specify in the "Special Request" form at the time of your booking, at least 3 days ahead). Your driver will hold a Trippest's sign at the exit Your driver will help you with your luggage Map of Terminal 3 of Xi'an Xianyang Inernational Airport • Pick up from airport: We provide up to 2 hours of waiting time at the airport after your flights arrives, counting from the actual landing time. Otherwise, additional waiting time fees may apply (USD5 PER half hour). If you encounter any problems (visa issue or the luggage losing, please do not hesitate to contact us at +86-18807734970 immediately. • Pick up from hotel: We provide up to 20 mins of waiting time at your designated pick-up address. If you don't show up during the waiting time and cannot be contacted, you will miss your car and receive no refund. Service Price (USD/Per way/Per person) Transfer Types 1 pax 2 pax 3 pax 4 pax 5 pax 6 pax 7 pax 8 pax 9 pax 10 pax Xi'an Airport - Hotel $35 $17 $16 $13 $11 $11 $10 $9 $8 $7 Xi'anbei North Station - Hotel $27 $14 $13 $11 $8 $9 $8 $7 $6 $6 Xi'an Railway Station - Hotel $23 $11 $12 $10 $8 $7 $6 $6 $5 $5 Important Notes: This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (< age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. Service Price (USD/Per way/Per person) Transfer Types 1 pax 2 pax 3 pax 4 pax 5 pax 6 pax 7 pax 8 pax 9 pax 10 pax Xi'an Airport - Hotel $35 $17 $16 $13 $11 $11 $10 $9 $8 $7 Xi'anbei North Station - Hotel $27 $14 $13 $11 $8 $9 $8 $7 $6 $6 Xi'an Railway Station - Hotel $23 $11 $12 $10 $8 $7 $6 $6 $5 $5 Important Notes: This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (< age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. • This service is available daily. Child (age 2-17) and infant (< age 2) are charged the same price as adult (age 18+). This price includes the transfer service with a private car and a driver who can speak a little English. FAQs About This Tour What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Xi'an? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and train stations in Xi'an: Airports: Xi'an Xianyang International Airport (XIY) Train Stations: Xi'an Railway Station, Xi'an Bei North Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Xi'an City What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. Flights monitor APP What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. What should I do if my China visa expires? There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Xi'an can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Xi'an? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and train stations in Xi'an: Airports: Xi'an Xianyang International Airport (XIY) Train Stations: Xi'an Railway Station, Xi'an Bei North Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Xi'an City What is the pick-up and drop-off area in Xi'an? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and train stations in Xi'an: Airports: Xi'an Xianyang International Airport (XIY) Train Stations: Xi'an Railway Station, Xi'an Bei North Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Xi'an City The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within the third ring road of Xi'an. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our transfer service covers the airport and train stations in Xi'an: • Airports: Xi'an Xianyang International Airport (XIY) • Train Stations: Xi'an Railway Station, Xi'an Bei North Railway Station Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Xi'an City What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What information should I provide when I book this service? 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. 1. Transfer to train station/airport: please tell us your train/flight details. We will schedule the best departure time for you. (We suggest you to set off from hotel 3 hours before a domestic flight, or 4 hours before an international flight. For catching a train, set off from hotel 2.5 hours before would be suggested.) 2. Transfer from train station to hotel: normally, there are two exits, about 50-100 meters away from each other. Please tell us your Train No. and Carriage No. so that our driver can meet you at the exit nearest to you. 3. Please tell us the correct information of your flight, train, hotel name and address. Our driver won't take any responsibility for transfering to a different hotel or miss you at airport as a result of your wrong information. There will be extra cost for the second service required. What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. Flights monitor APP What if my flight is delayed? You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. Flights monitor APP You will not be charged extra. We monitor all flight arrivals and hence dispatch our drivers on the basis of the real-time flight information. So no matter how delayed your flight is you can always ensure that your driver is waiting for you at the terminal point on arrival. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. What if my flight's schedule time is early or late? We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. We will charge extra fee US$10 per way if you arrive/depart with an early morning flight or a late night flight. Duration: Between 10pm and 7am. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. How much weight am I allowed to take to China? And how much would I have to pay for extra weight? Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. Typical weight allowances for international flights ranges from 20–40kg. For domestic flights weight allowance is 20kg. For extra weight, there is a charge of at the rate of 1.5% of the full net airfare per extra kilo. Please confirm with your airlines. Let us know if you're bringing excess/oversize luggage. What should I do if my China visa expires? There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Xi'an can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. What should I do if my China visa expires? There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Xi'an can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. There is no need to panic if your China visa is about to expire, just inform us and ask your travel advisor to show you to the Shanghai Entry and Exit Administration Bureau to extend your visa. Our local office in Xi'an can provide a document to prove your status as a tourist and your departure date. Normally, it should take 3 working days to complete the procedure. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What Makes Us Different Confident and reliable We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. Selected Vehicles Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Xi'an tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. We Go Extra Miles! Poor air can be the most concern when you are travelling in Xi'an. There're good days. There're bad days. We tested the AOI in a smog day, the index is up to 260, even in a completely sealed car, the index is also up to 140. Generally speaking, an AQI level of 100 is generally seen as the upper limit for healthy air. So we equip with an air purifier in each vehicle. Experiment has proved that the index in car is down to 30. Don't let the bad weather day get you down. We are always doing our best to make you enjoy your trip better. Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Xi'an office address: Room 715, Unit 2 Building 2, Lijia Village Wanda Plaza, No.8 Yanta North Road, Beilin District What Makes Us Different Confident and reliable We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. Confident and reliable We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. We provide our customers with competent and reliable drivers. Our drivers are accustomed with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. Selected Vehicles Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Xi'an tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Xi'an tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. Our vehicles are licensed and registered by the Xi'an tourism administration. Our drivers are required to be familiar with routes to tourist destinations, hotels, and restaurants. As we update our tour vehicles every 4 years, currently the vehicle that you will be taking will be less than 2 years old. Our vehicles are equipped with GPS and traffic reporting software, which will enable the driver to foresee traffic jams, and attempt to avoid them. You will receive photos of the vehicle we will use. Our vehicles are all insured with 50,000 RMB coverage for each seat. We Go Extra Miles! Poor air can be the most concern when you are travelling in Xi'an. There're good days. There're bad days. We tested the AOI in a smog day, the index is up to 260, even in a completely sealed car, the index is also up to 140. Generally speaking, an AQI level of 100 is generally seen as the upper limit for healthy air. So we equip with an air purifier in each vehicle. Experiment has proved that the index in car is down to 30. Don't let the bad weather day get you down. We are always doing our best to make you enjoy your trip better. Poor air can be the most concern when you are travelling in Xi'an. There're good days. There're bad days. We tested the AOI in a smog day, the index is up to 260, even in a completely sealed car, the index is also up to 140. Generally speaking, an AQI level of 100 is generally seen as the upper limit for healthy air. So we equip with an air purifier in each vehicle. Experiment has proved that the index in car is down to 30. Don't let the bad weather day get you down. We are always doing our best to make you enjoy your trip better. Poor air can be the most concern when you are travelling in Xi'an. There're good days. There're bad days. We tested the AOI in a smog day, the index is up to 260, even in a completely sealed car, the index is also up to 140. Generally speaking, an AQI level of 100 is generally seen as the upper limit for healthy air. So we equip with an air purifier in each vehicle. Experiment has proved that the index in car is down to 30. Don't let the bad weather day get you down. We are always doing our best to make you enjoy your trip better. Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Xi'an office address: Room 715, Unit 2 Building 2, Lijia Village Wanda Plaza, No.8 Yanta North Road, Beilin District Locally-Based for Quick Quality Service Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) Xi'an office address: Room 715, Unit 2 Building 2, Lijia Village Wanda Plaza, No.8 Yanta North Road, Beilin District • Emergency contact: +86-18807734970 (24/7 customer service) • Xi'an office address: Room 715, Unit 2 Building 2, Lijia Village Wanda Plaza, No.8 Yanta North Road, Beilin District For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 25 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an Airport to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an Railway Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Xi'an Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an North Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Xi'an North Station Private Departure Transfer: Hotel - Xi'an Railway Station No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 25 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an Airport to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an Railway Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Xi'an Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an North Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Xi'an North Station Private Departure Transfer: Hotel - Xi'an Railway Station No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 25 p/p Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an Airport to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an Railway Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Xi'an Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an North Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Xi'an North Station Private Departure Transfer: Hotel - Xi'an Railway Station No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an Airport to Hotel Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an Railway Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Xi'an Airport Private Arrival Transfer: Xi'an North Station to Hotel Private Departure Transfer: Hotel to Xi'an North Station Private Departure Transfer: Hotel - Xi'an Railway Station No. of Travelers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20