ID: 6458261e3db64f90
Title: How to Visit Longqing Gorge & Ice Lantern Festival from Beijing
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/beijing/attraction/longqing-gorge.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Longqing Gorge is located in Yanqing County, Beijing, approximately 90 kilometers (2 hours' drive) from the city center. It is steep with beautiful mountains and clear water. The 7-kilometer-long canyon combines the beauty and elegance of southern landscapes with the grandeur and magnificence of northern mountains. The Ice Lantern Festival of Longqing Gorge is a highlight of the cultural activities in suburbs of Beijing. Every year, the festival attracts hundreds of thousands of tourists from both at home and abroad to watch. If you aren't going to Harbin for the bigger Harbin Ice and Snow Festival, Beijing Longqing Ice and snow Festival is a great alternative for winter tour fun. I take guests to Longqing Gorge several times a year. Here are some guidelines I have provided to make your trip to the gorge more interesting and comfortable. Thomas Huang 20+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hi, I'm Thomas. I was born in a remote mountain village in western Hubei Province. I first learned about Beijing from the elementary school textbook "I Love Tiananmen Square in Beijing." After graduating from university, I have worked as a tour guide in Beijing for over 20 years. When I take a break from my busy schedule, I enjoy traveling with my family through the narrow alleys of old Beijing to discover fascinating stories and history, or appreciating Peking Opera in a theater, where I can listen to the elegant Beijing dialect infused with a thousand-year-old myth. 20+ Years as a Local Guide in Beijing Hi, I'm Thomas. I was born in a remote mountain village in western Hubei Province. I first learned about Beijing from the elementary school textbook "I Love Tiananmen Square in Beijing." After graduating from university, I have worked as a tour guide in Beijing for over 20 years. When I take a break from my busy schedule, I enjoy traveling with my family through the narrow alleys of old Beijing to discover fascinating stories and history, or appreciating Peking Opera in a theater, where I can listen to the elegant Beijing dialect infused with a thousand-year-old myth. • Opening Time • Cruise is the Main Way to Visit the Gorge • Longqing Gorge Ice Lantern Festival 2026 • Best Time • How to Get to It from Beijing What is the Opening Time for the Longqing Gorge? Longqing Gorge normally opens for the spring-autumn season from April 1st to November 10th. It closes in winter from 11th November to 31st March except the time for the Ice and Lantern Festival, which is usually celebrated from mid-January to the end of February. April 1st - June 30th & Sep 1st – Nov 11th: 08:30 - 17:00 on weekdays and 08:30 - 17:30 on weekends July 1st - August 31st: 08:00 - 17:30 on weekdays and 08:00 - 18:00 on weekends Qingming Festival, Labor Day, Dragon Boat Festival, National Day, Mid-Autumn Festival: Opening Hours for the Ice Lantern Festival: Weekdays: 09:00 - 21:00 (Mid-January to end of February 2026) Glacier Canyon Scenic Area: 9:00-16:00 (Mid-January to end of February 2026) Longqing Gorge Cruise Is the Main Way to Visit the Gorge Longqing Gorge Cruise With a sitting capacity of 30 – 40 passengers, the Longqing Gorge Cruise departs from the pier on the north side of the dam and docks at the Mount Jingang Pier on the halfway. The duration of this tour lasts about 20 minutes. The main attractions the boat passes by include Zhenshan Tathagata, Fengguan Islet, Zhongshan Mountain etc. • "Zhenshan Tathagata" is a giant rock located on a hillside, standing tall and resembling the profile portrait of Tathagata Buddha. Legend has it that Tathagata Buddha, traveled around the world and was enchanted by the scenery here. So he used the rock as a symbol to stand here, blessing the safety of travelers. • Fengguan Islet is a small hill surrounded by water on three sides and leaning against the mountain on one side, presenting the formation of a peninsula. Overall, it looks like a floating phoenix crown, swaying with the waves, hence the name Fengguan Islet; The water surface in the gorge around Fengguan Islet is about 50 meters wide and 35 meters deep. It has become the iconic landscape of Longqing Gorge. • Zhongshan Mountain resembles a large bell inverted in water, hence it got its name. Zhongshan Mountain not only features its unique shape, but also boasts an interesting sound effect. In the event of stormy weather when the waves hit the rocks, it makes a dull sound that resembles a distant bell. After the boat stops at the Mount Jingang Pier, you can climb up to the highest point (the Jade Emperor Peak) of Longqing Gorge. With an altitude of 990 meters, the Jade Emperor Peak offers a fantastic panoramic view of the entire site. En route, you can visit the Jinggang Temple, the Immortal Temple and other key spots. This hike usually takes about 1.5 hours and a reasonable level of fitness is required. Afterwards, you can take a cable car with additional 68 CNY per person from the Immortal Temple to the Baihua Caves and then walk down along the footpath to the exit and finish the trip. This hike usually takes about 1.5 hours and a reasonable level of fitness is required. Afterwards, you can take a cable car with additional 68 CNY per person from the Immortal Temple to the Baihua Caves and then walk down along the footpath to the exit and finish the trip. Longqing Gorge Ice Lantern Festival 2026 The 2026 Longqing Gorg Ice Lantern Festival will start in mid-January and will finish at the end of February. It is open from 9 am to 10 pm every day. Going during daylight hours is best for the snow and ice activities. Sundown is as early as 5 pm. However, the ice lanterns and sculptures look more brilliant under the colorful lights at night, so the best time to be at the festival is from 5 pm to 10 pm. The ice sculptures emit beautiful lights at night With a total scenic area of approximately 500,000 square meters, the main venue is divided into the Ice Lantern Area, Flower Lantern Area, and Glacier Canyon Area. Flower lanterns, tree lights, large-scale ice sculptures, and snow sculptures have transformed the entire scenic area into a colorful ocean. The highlights of this year include a large-scale ice sculpture of Monkey King, and snow sculptures of mythical beasts of the Nine-Tailed Fox, Pixiu, Azure Dragon, and Xuanwu. You can also experience a wide range of entertainment and activities, such as cosplay interactions, Ice tug of war, ice bowling, drone performances, and so on. Best Time to Visit the Longqing Gorge The best time to visit Longqing Gorge is during the spring (April to May) and autumn (September to early November) when the weather is mild and the scenery is particularly beautiful. Longqing Gorge is full of green vitality in spring • Spring (April - May): The vegetation in the scenic area gradually turns green and wildflowers are in full bloom. It is a good time to go spring outing and admire flowers. Temperatures range from 10°C to 25°C (50°F to 77°F). • Summer (June - August): The scenic area is cool and green with lush vegetation, making it a great place to escape the heat. Temperatures can rise to 30°C (86°F) or higher. • Autumn (September - November): This is one of the most charming seasons in Longqing Gorge when the tree leaves gradually change colors from green to yellow and red. Temperatures range from 10°C to 20°C (50°F to 68°F). • Winter (January - February): Longqing Gorge is covered in silver and turned into a world of ice and snow. It is the best time to enjoy the Ice Lantern Festival. In winter, the temperature in Longqing Gorge during the night can drop to minus 15 degrees Celsius, it is highly recommended to wear hats, gloves, down jackets, etc. Ice in Longqing Gorge in winter How to Get to Longqing Gorge from Beijing From Beijing to Longqing Gorge, due to there is no direct bus and metro lines, you will need to change several times between subway and buses if you want to take public transportation. The entire journey of one way can take about 3- 4 hours. Therefore, I would like to suggest that you use our private car service, it is more convenient and comfortable. It is great to have a private car and private tour guide along to share with you the stories of local culture and answer all of your questions! You can just tell us your interests and requirements and we will create your own fun trip in Beijing. Day Trip from Beijing Or Stay Overnight in Longqing Gorge? If you are planning to visit Longqing Gorge from April to November, I would suggest that you take a day trip from Beijing city. Depart from the hotel at 8 am, you will reach Longqing Gorge after 1.5-2 hours' driving. And then spend around 4 hours discovering the gorge and 1.5 hours for a lunch stop, you can return to the hotel before 18:00. If you are planning to see the Ice Lantern Festival, you can take a day trip from Beijing city as well. Depart from the hotel at 12pm and spend 1 - 2 hours in the Glacier Canyon Scenic Area first and then head to Ice Lantern Area and Flower Lantern Area between 17:00 and 20:00. At this time of the day, the ice lanterns, tree flowers, ice and snow sculptures are starting to illuminate, so the whole area looks more gorgeous and colorful. You can return to the hotel before 10 pm. The Badaling section of the Great Wall is on the way from Beijing to Longqing Gorge. If you depart in the morning time like 8-9 am, you can visit the Badaling Great Wall in the morning and visit the Longqing Gorge Ice Lantern Festival in the afternoon/evening in one day from Beijing. More Beijing tours for choice and just contact us if you want to add Longqing Gorge to your itinerary.