ID: 79b9dc9186b985df
Title: China Weather in October 2025: Where to Go, Crowds, and Costs
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/weather/october.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

October is the most popular month for people traveling to China. Sunny and cool weather that's ideal for travel prevails in most of China. Autumnal colors begin to appear across the country and are generally at their best at the end of the month. Read on to learn more about China's weather in October and take advantage of our helpful travel tips. • October Weather Conditions • Weather in North China • Weather in East China • Weather in South China • Weather in West China • Top 6 Places to Visit in October Is October a Good Time to Visit China? October is one of the most pleasant months to travel in China — not too hot, not too cold, and filled with beautiful autumn colors. However, it's also one of the busiest travel seasons. The first week of October marks China's National Day "Golden Week", a seven-day public holiday when millions of locals travel across the country. During this period, expect large crowds at major attractions and hotel prices that may double. To enjoy a more relaxed experience, it's best to avoid the first week of October. By the end of the month, tourist numbers drop significantly, making it a better time to visit. Tips for Traveling During Golden Week If you decide to travel during this peak holiday, make sure to book your hotel at least one month in advance. Crowds are inevitable. You'll likely need to queue for almost everything, from attractions and restaurants to taxis. For a smoother experience, consider joining a private tour. It can make logistics much easier. With someone arranging your tickets (VIP channels), transport, and daily schedule, you'll spend less time waiting and more time enjoying. Guides and vehicles tend to be in high demand during October, so it's best to book at least two months ahead. While most popular destinations will be busy, there are still quieter corners of China where you can enjoy the autumn scenery without the crowds. Check out our Places to Escape the Golden Week Crowds for ideas on where to go if you're seeking a calmer getaway. Tips for Traveling During Golden Week If you decide to travel during this peak holiday, make sure to book your hotel at least one month in advance. Crowds are inevitable. You'll likely need to queue for almost everything, from attractions and restaurants to taxis. For a smoother experience, consider joining a private tour. It can make logistics much easier. With someone arranging your tickets (VIP channels), transport, and daily schedule, you'll spend less time waiting and more time enjoying. Guides and vehicles tend to be in high demand during October, so it's best to book at least two months ahead. While most popular destinations will be busy, there are still quieter corners of China where you can enjoy the autumn scenery without the crowds. Check out our Places to Escape the Golden Week Crowds for ideas on where to go if you're seeking a calmer getaway. China Weather in October: Overview • Average daily temperature range: 10–20°C (50–68°F) • Average rainfall: 49 mm (2 in) • Average rainy days: 4 • Average sunny days: 26 Weather in North China (Beijing, Xi'an...) Cities in North China are quite chilly in October and the temperature could be below 10°C (50°F) at night. The summer rains are over, so it is usually dry, but the cold air brings light rain. Take Beijing as an example — the average temperature is 8–19°C (46–66°F). Beijing gets optimal crisp, cool, and clear weather, and locals love to go out to see the scenery and exercise outdoors in October. Clothing: Generally, a base layer with a light jacket or fleece is a good option for the daytime, with a coat at the ready for the evening. Weather in East China (Shanghai, Hangzhou...) East China's cities enjoy pleasant autumnal weather on most days. It is often still warm and there is much less rainfall than in summer. The exception is if a tropical storm or typhoon arrives. Take Shanghai as an example — the average temperature is 15–23°C (59–73°F). The yellow ginkgo trees along the roads make the city of Shanghai appear even more beautiful. Clothing: Wear a light jacket, light clothing, and shorts. Weather in South China (Guilin, Guangzhou, Hong Kong...) Cities in South China still have fairly hot weather in early October. It rains half as much as it does during the summer or less. It could still be warm during the day and it is cool at night. Guilin is a northerly example — the average temperature is 19–27°C (66–81°F). This makes for better touring, hiking, and biking weather. Hong Kong eventually gets cooler and has drier fall weather by the end of October. However, sometimes there are typhoons and it rains heavily. It is warm during the day and sometimes still at night. Clothing: Wear shorts and light clothes, but take rain gear. 13-Day Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Guilin – Hong Kong A Broad Taste of China 13-Day Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Guilin – Hong Kong A Broad Taste of China 13-Day Private Tour: Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Guilin – Hong Kong A Broad Taste of China Weather in West China (Chengdu, Tibet, Yunnan...) The temperature falls significantly in China's west in October, and it gets cold at night. By the end of the month, it begins to freeze. The mountains grow cold and begin to be covered in snow. It is cold or warm depending on the altitude. Rainfall is very low, except in the mountains. In Lhasa (Tibet) the temperature averages 5–19°C (41–66°F) and rainfall is light: 8 mm (0.5 in) in 4 days. Travel in the west is popular with early autumn colors, for example in Tibet, Jiuzhaigou, the Silk Road, and Inner Mongolia. Clothing: Wear a jacket/coat and trousers, and take a hat and other UV protection. Recommended China October Tours 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Tour 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai Tour 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet All of our tours can be customized. Feel free to contact us. Recommended China October Tours • 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Tour • 2-Week Beijing – Xi'an – Zhangjiajie – Guilin – Shanghai Tour • 3-Week Must-See Places China Tour Including Holy Tibet All of our tours can be customized. Feel free to contact us. Top 6 Places to Visit in China in October In October, almost everywhere is highly suitable for sightseeing. The cool and pleasant weather makes it perfect for a variety of activities. Most destinations are adorned with charming autumn colors. If you have other destinations in mind besides the following, we could also arrange an itinerary to suit you: almost everywhere in China is good to travel in October! 1. Beijing: Embracing History Amid Fall Foliage The Forbidden City in Autumn Beijing is a must-visit destination for most first-timers to China no matter when you travel. But visiting in October would give you a more comfortable experience. October's mild weather makes activities on the Great Wall more delightful. Whether it's hiking or camping, both are optimal choices. Even if you're just sightseeing, the autumn scenery at the Great Wall would not disappoint you. The scattered leaves of gold, amber, and crimson create a striking contrast against the ancient stone structure. You could delve into the ancient world without the extremes of summer heat or winter cold in the Forbidden City and the Temple of Heaven. See our popular 6-Day Beijing Autumn Tour. You won't want to miss the chance to explore Beijing's traditional hutongs for a taste of local cuisine and authentic cultural immersion. 2. Shanghai: the Modern Marvels of Fall Our clients in the Bund In October, Shanghai's tree-lined streets and parks are adorned with a mosaic of golden and russet leaves. The city's iconic Bund offers mesmerizing views of futuristic skyscrapers juxtaposed with the elegance of the Huangpu River. A cozy walk along the Bund would let you touch and feel their charm and learn about the history behind them when you step into those old buildings. You could visit the Jade Buddha Temple to feel the simplicity amid the urban glamour. After visiting, you could take a break at a quiet coffee shop to experience a moment of tranquility amid the bustling city. We know a shop that provides jobs for people with autism. It's a nice option to consider. Check out our 2-Week Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Guilin, Xian, and Beijing Tour. 3. Tibet: Spirituality and Majesty in Harmony October's pleasant temperatures and clear skies create an optimal environment for a spiritual journey in Tibet. The Potala Palace and monasteries glow under the warm sunshine and clear sky. You could hike in a Tibetan pasture and experience horse riding, milking yaks, and making butter. You could spend a day like a Tibetan nomad. It is a good way to get involved in rural local life. Barkhor Street is another place to get an impression of the local way of life, but in the Tibetan capital. There, you could visit a local market and encounter devout pilgrims and local vendors selling Tibetan crafts and goods. October also marks an ideal time for the revered Mount Kailash pilgrimage, facilitated by warm enough weather, low rainfall, and good oxygen levels. Tibet is relatively less crowded in October. You could take a look at our 17-Day Silk Road and Tibet Cultural Tour. 4. Zhangjiajie: Avatar's Enchanted Realm Zhangjiajie in autumn reveals a spellbinding panorama. You could explore the iconic pillars and breathtaking landscapes that inspired the movie Avatar in Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. When you take a cable car ride to the summits and hike along the trails amid the vibrant fall foliage, you may be amazed by the looming beauty when mist shrouds the mountains. You could ride the world's longest cable car to Tianmen Mountain, marvel at the stunning vistas from the glass skywalk, and capture the stunning autumn scenery through your lens. 5. Guilin: Autumn's Splendor in Karst Landscapes Guilin's karst landscapes come alive in October with hues of gold and red. The Li River reflects the towering limestone peaks, offering an enchanting scene during a leisurely Li River cruise. For a charming escape, you could venture to Yangshuo's countryside. Cycling or walking along winding paths, and as the sun sets, the landscape is painted with a soft, golden glow, casting a serene enchantment over this idyllic corner of China. October is also the most beautiful time to visit the Longji Rice Terraces. The entire landscape turns golden, and with the pleasant weather, it's perfect for hiking along the fields. 6. The Silk Road: Tracing Ancient Trade Routes Zhangye Rainbow Mountains Located in a relatively dry region with desert landscapes, the cool and mild weather in October offers the best sightseeing conditions to travel along the Silk Road. See our 12-Day China Silk Road Tour from Xi'an to Kashgar. You could travel from the ancient capital, Xi'an, to colorful Zhangye, then to mysterious Dunhuang, and finally to exotic Xinjiang. Along this journey, you would explore the mausoleum of China's first emperor — the Terracotta Army, vast deserts, and the Mogao Caves, the world's largest and most content-rich site of Buddhist art. You could also explore the vibrant bazaars, old towns, and stunning scenery of Xinjiang, and immerse yourself in a blend of Chinese and Central Asian influences. You could savor local flavors and absorb the captivating atmosphere. You could get more ideas on our Top Places to Visit in October in China. Monthly Weather and Travel Information for China • China Weather in January • China Weather in February • China Weather in March • China Weather in April • China Weather in May • China Weather in June • China Weather in July • China Weather in August • China Weather in September • China Weather in October • China Weather in November • China Weather in December