ID: 76ca2f1a7ce95ff7
Title: Chinese Culture, Customs and Traditions (A Complete Guide)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/culture/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

China is one of the Four Ancient Civilizations (alongside Babylon, India and Egypt), according to Chinese scholar Liang Qichao (1900). It boasts a vast and varied geographic expanse, 3,600 years of written history, as well as a rich and profound culture. Chinese culture is diverse and unique, yet harmoniously blended — an invaluable asset to the world. Our China culture guide contains information divided into Traditions, Heritage, Arts, Festivals, Language, and Symbols. Topics include Chinese food, World Heritage sites, China's Spring Festival, Kungfu, and Beijing opera. Chinese New Year Chinese Zodiac China History The Forbidden City Chinese Food China is one of the Four Ancient Civilizations (alongside Babylon, India and Egypt), according to Chinese scholar Liang Qichao (1900). It boasts a vast and varied geographic expanse, 3,600 years of written history, as well as a rich and profound culture. Chinese culture is diverse and unique, yet harmoniously blended — an invaluable asset to the world. Our China culture guide contains information divided into Traditions, Heritage, Arts, Festivals, Language, and Symbols. Topics include Chinese food, World Heritage sites, China's Spring Festival, Kungfu, and Beijing opera. Chinese New Year Chinese Zodiac China History The Forbidden City Chinese Food China's Traditions Eating and Drinking in China Lucky and Unlucky Numbers in China Ancient Marriage Customs Chinese Zodiac Chinese Names Traditional Chinese Clothing China's Traditions Eating and Drinking in China Lucky and Unlucky Numbers in China Ancient Marriage Customs Chinese Zodiac Chinese Names Traditional Chinese Clothing Eating and Drinking in China Lucky and Unlucky Numbers in China Ancient Marriage Customs Eating and Drinking in China Lucky and Unlucky Numbers in China Ancient Marriage Customs Chinese Zodiac Chinese Names Traditional Chinese Clothing Traditional Chinese Clothing China's Heritage China's national heritage is both tangible and intangible, with natural wonders and historic sites, as well as ethnic songs and festivals included. As of 2018, 53 noteworthy Chinese sites were inscribed on UNESCO's World Heritage List: 36 Cultural Heritage, 13 Natural Heritage, and 4 Cultural and Natural Heritage. World Heritage Sites Chinese Ancient Currency China's national heritage is both tangible and intangible, with natural wonders and historic sites, as well as ethnic songs and festivals included. As of 2018, 53 noteworthy Chinese sites were inscribed on UNESCO's World Heritage List: 36 Cultural Heritage, 13 Natural Heritage, and 4 Cultural and Natural Heritage. World Heritage Sites Chinese Ancient Currency Chinese Ancient Currency China's Performing Arts Chinese Folk Dance Chinese Musical Instruments Arts and Crafts Chinese Silk Chinese Kites Chinese Paper Umbrellas Ancient Porcelain Chinese Seals China's Performing Arts Chinese Folk Dance Chinese Musical Instruments Arts and Crafts Chinese Silk Chinese Kites Chinese Paper Umbrellas Ancient Porcelain Chinese Seals China's Performing Arts • Chinese Folk Dance • Chinese Musical Instruments Chinese Silk Chinese Kites Chinese Paper Umbrellas Ancient Porcelain Chinese Seals • Chinese Silk • Chinese Kites • Chinese Paper Umbrellas • Ancient Porcelain • Chinese Seals China's Festivals China has several traditional festivals that are celebrated all over the country (in different ways). The most important is Chinese New Year, then Mid-Autumn Festival. China, with its "55 Ethnic Minorities", also has many ethnic festivals. From Tibet to Manchuria to China's tropical south, different tribes celebrate their new year, harvest, and other things, in various ways. Chinese Spring Festival Mid-Autumn Festival Dragon Boat Festival Sisters' Meal Festival China has several traditional festivals that are celebrated all over the country (in different ways). The most important is Chinese New Year, then Mid-Autumn Festival. China, with its "55 Ethnic Minorities", also has many ethnic festivals. From Tibet to Manchuria to China's tropical south, different tribes celebrate their new year, harvest, and other things, in various ways. Chinese Spring Festival Mid-Autumn Festival Dragon Boat Festival Chinese Spring Festival Sisters' Meal Festival Sisters' Meal Festival Learning Chinese Chinese is reckoned to be the most difficult language in the world to learn, but that also must make it the most interesting. It's the world's only remaining pictographic language in common use, with thousands of characters making up the written language. Its pronunciation is generally one syllable per character, in one of five tones. China's rich literary culture includes many pithy sayings and beautiful poems. Chinese Sayings Symbols of China Every nation has its symbols, but what should you think of when it comes to China? You might conjure up images of long coiling dragons, the red flag, pandas, the Great Wall… table tennis, the list goes on… Chinese Dragons Giant Pandas The Great Wall Learning Chinese Chinese is reckoned to be the most difficult language in the world to learn, but that also must make it the most interesting. It's the world's only remaining pictographic language in common use, with thousands of characters making up the written language. Its pronunciation is generally one syllable per character, in one of five tones. China's rich literary culture includes many pithy sayings and beautiful poems. Chinese Sayings Symbols of China Every nation has its symbols, but what should you think of when it comes to China? You might conjure up images of long coiling dragons, the red flag, pandas, the Great Wall… table tennis, the list goes on… Chinese Dragons Giant Pandas The Great Wall Chinese is reckoned to be the most difficult language in the world to learn, but that also must make it the most interesting. It's the world's only remaining pictographic language in common use, with thousands of characters making up the written language. Its pronunciation is generally one syllable per character, in one of five tones. China's rich literary culture includes many pithy sayings and beautiful poems. Every nation has its symbols, but what should you think of when it comes to China? You might conjure up images of long coiling dragons, the red flag, pandas, the Great Wall… table tennis, the list goes on… Chinese Dragons Giant Pandas The Great Wall Top Recommended Chinese Culture Tours Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Tour China's classic sights A silent night on the Great Wall Relaxing in China's countryside View More China Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Shanghai Tour China's past, present, and future The Terracotta Amy coming alive Experience a high-speed train ride View More A Close Encounter with Pandas 13-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour Feed a lovely giant panda Explore China's classic sights Relax on a Yangtze River cruise View More Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 13-Day Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Walk on the the Great Wall. Make a mini warrior with a local family. Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More Top Recommended Chinese Culture Tours Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Tour China's classic sights A silent night on the Great Wall Relaxing in China's countryside View More China Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Shanghai Tour China's past, present, and future The Terracotta Amy coming alive Experience a high-speed train ride View More A Close Encounter with Pandas 13-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour Feed a lovely giant panda Explore China's classic sights Relax on a Yangtze River cruise View More Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 13-Day Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Walk on the the Great Wall. Make a mini warrior with a local family. Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More Classic Wonders 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Tour China's classic sights A silent night on the Great Wall Relaxing in China's countryside View More 11-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Guilin/Yangshuo – Shanghai Tour China's classic sights A silent night on the Great Wall Relaxing in China's countryside View More • China's classic sights • A silent night on the Great Wall • Relaxing in China's countryside China Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Shanghai Tour China's past, present, and future The Terracotta Amy coming alive Experience a high-speed train ride View More China Golden Triangle 8-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Shanghai Tour China's past, present, and future The Terracotta Amy coming alive Experience a high-speed train ride View More • China's past, present, and future • The Terracotta Amy coming alive • Experience a high-speed train ride A Close Encounter with Pandas 13-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour Feed a lovely giant panda Explore China's classic sights Relax on a Yangtze River cruise View More A Close Encounter with Pandas 13-Day Beijing – Xi'an – Chengdu – Yangtze Cruise – Shanghai Tour Feed a lovely giant panda Explore China's classic sights Relax on a Yangtze River cruise View More • Feed a lovely giant panda • Explore China's classic sights • Relax on a Yangtze River cruise Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 13-Day Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Walk on the the Great Wall. Make a mini warrior with a local family. Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More Beautiful China with Holy Tibet 13-Day Private Tour: Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Walk on the the Great Wall. Make a mini warrior with a local family. Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace. View More • Walk on the the Great Wall. • Make a mini warrior with a local family. • Pay your respects at the pilgrim's holy palace.