ID: 4636e4df4d05dcdf
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Lijiang and Shangri-La 2026
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yunnan/trip-to-lijiang-and-shangri-la.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Lijiang, a colorful, enchanting city, resonates with the story of the explorer Joseph Rock, while Shangri-La mirrors the paradise depicted by James Hilton in his novel Lost Horizon. Both destinations enjoy unique minority cultures and pristine natural scenery, alluring numerous travelers and explorers in pursuit of their spiritual sanctuary. This guide will help you to plan a trip to Lijiang and Shangri-La in Yunnan, with details of transportation, itinerary suggestions, budget required, and recommended visiting time. • How Many Days Are Needed • Recommended Itinerary Suggestions • Travel between Lijiang and Shangri-La • Best time to visit Lijiang and Shangri-La • Where to stay in Lijiang and Shangri-La • Cost for a trip to Lijiang and Shangri-La How Long to Spend in Lijiang and Shangri-La Typically, a Lijiang and Shangri-La tour lasts 5–7 days. Allocate 2–3 days in each destination to visit their classic attractions. If you prefer hiking or want to explore more attractions nearby, the itinerary could be extended by 1–3 days depending on your preference. Shangri-La is located in a high-altitude area, so you may experience varying degrees of altitude sickness. Consider slowing down your travel pace and allowing an extra day in your itinerary so that you could have ample time to acclimate and cope with any discomfort you may experience without missing any must-see attractions. Lijiang and Shangri-La Itinerary Suggestions We recommend a 6-day classic tour with 3 days in Lijiang and 3 days in Shangri-La. This route includes the exploration of Naxi and Tibetan cultures, snow mountain hiking, ancient town experiences, as well as natural scenery appreciation. If you want to connect Lijiang and Shangri-La with other Yunnan cities, we also provide an option for that. 6-Day Experience-Rich Lijiang and Shangri-La Tour • Day 1: Lijiang arrival and explore Lijiang Old Town • Day 2: Jade Dragon Snow Mountain hiking • Day 3: Tiger Leaping Gorge hiking, and transfer to Shangri-La • Day 4: Songzanlin Monastery, a Tibetan blessing ceremony, and cycle around Napa Lake • Day 5: Qianhu Mountains hiking • Day 6: Shangri-La departure This 6-day itinerary begins in Lijiang, where you could acclimate to the higher altitude for 2 days before transitioning to Shangri-La. We would arrange a hotel with diffused oxygen in Shangri-La, helping you cope with potential altitude sickness better, which has been especially helpful for seniors and families with kids. In Lijiang, be an explorer like Joseph Rock and explore the charming Naxi culture and holy snow mountains. We arrange hiking on both Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and Tiger Leaping Gorge, allowing you to enjoy unique viewing perspectives and see more mountainside nature. Hike on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain If you're not so keen on hiking, we could arrange a cableway trip up the snow mountains just for sightseeing. In Shangri-La, this tour combines pure fairy-tale natural scenery viewing and Tibetan culture exploration. At Napa Lake, you could enjoy expansive grassland scenery with horses and sheep grazing the highland pasture, making it an ideal place for relaxing and connecting with nature. Tibetan culture is also an enchanting part of Shangri-La. In Songzanlin Monastery, we would arrange Weisang ceremony for you(hanging the colorful flags), and most visitors can rarely encounter this. Flying prayer flags in Songzanlin Monastery A Classic Yunnan Trip with Shangri-La and Lijiang For first-timers visiting Yunnan, Shangri-La and Lijiang typically go together with Dali and Kunming for a complete Yunnan trip. Such an itinerary usually takes about 8 days. The following is the suggested itinerary: • Days 1–2: Kunming (arrival and Naigu Stone Forest) • Day 3: Dali (Er Lake and Xizhou Ancient Town) • Days 4–6: Lijiang (Lijiang Old Town, Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, and Tiger Leaping Gorge) • Days 7–8: Shangri-La (Potatso National Park and Songzanlin Monastery) 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan How to Travel Between Lijiang and Shangri-La Lijiang is relatively close to Shangri-La, with multiple transportation options to transfer between these two destinations. The following transport comparison is only for approximate reference. Lijiang is relatively close to Shangri-La, with multiple transportation options to transfer between these two destinations. The following transport comparison is only for approximate reference. Transportation Time Feature Recommendation Private Transfer 3 hours More flexible; get to the attractions/hotel directly without waiting and detouring. Your driver and English-speaking guide would escort you all the way by private car, stopping where you want. Highly recommended Taxi 3 hours Not so flexible and a little expensive Less recommended Shuttle bus 3 hours Cost-effective, but you may encounter difficulty booking tickets, the language barrier, and not very comfortable seating Not recommended Bullet train About 1 hour Cost-effective and fast, but you would not see Tiger Leaping Gorge Recommended only if you want to take a direct trip between these two cities Flight About 1 day with transfer times No direct flights Not recommended 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure TourWander This Land on Foot 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure TourWander This Land on Foot 6-Day Lijiang to Shangri-La Adventure TourWander This Land on Foot Booking a tour service with a private transfer is what we recommend, especially if you travel with your family or you want a hassle-free travel experience. Tiger Leaping Gorge is usually a must-visit for a Yunnan trip, located between Lijiang and Shangri-La. With a private transfer, you could start from Lijiang and visit Tiger Leaping Gorge on the way to Shangri-La. If you want to transfer directly to Shangri-La without any stops, the bullet train is ideal. Best Times to Visit Lijiang and Shangri-La The best times to visit Lijiang are from April to May and September to October when the daytime temperature range averages 20–25°C (68–77°F). May to October is considered the best time to visit Shangri-La with the temperature varying between 15 and 25°C (59–77°F) on average. You could also enjoy pleasant scenery and fewer crowds during these times outside of the July/August summer vacation and public holidays in China. But in both Lijiang and Shangri-La, the temperature often varies by about 10°C (50°F) from day to night, and Shangri-La is typically 5–10°C (9–18°F) cooler than Lijiang due to its higher altitude. Spring (March to May) is one of the best times to visit Lijiang for its vibrant and colorful flower season. Shangri-La is still cool in March and April. Shangri-La in May would be better, since it becomes milder with newly sprouted grass and vibrant alpine azaleas. Summer (June to August) is a good time to visit Lijiang and Shangri-La to escape the heat elsewhere in China and enjoy lush grasslands and bright lakes with brimming water. However, summer sees frequent showers and crowds. Be prepared for that if you visit during this period. Napa Lake in Shangri-La Autumn (September to November) is an ideal time to admire autumn sights in both Lijiang and Shangri-La. Besides the yellow grass and fiery-red forests in Shangri-La, Lijiang also remains romantic with its colorful flowers. However, in November, the scenery becomes a little bleak with dry lakes and withered grass. Winter (December to February) is a fantastic season to admire snowscapes and sunlit golden snow mountain peaks, especially at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain and the Meili Snow Mountains, which showcase breathtaking snowy scenery. However, the lowest temperatures could drop to minus 10°C (14°F) in Shangri-La. Sunrise at the snow mountains Where to Stay in Lijiang and Shangri-La For the convenience of getting around and enjoying entertainment and dining options, we suggest staying in the downtown areas. Lijiang and Shangri-La are not very large, with most accommodation being located in the following key areas. Recommended Accommodation Areas in Lijiang Lijiang Old Town: This is the first choice for first-timers. This area combines sightseeing, dining, and entertainment with numerous boutique hotels and good transportation to nearby attractions. However, it may be a little noisy. Shuhe Ancient Town: This is a great option if you prefer a quieter and authentic ancient town atmosphere. It is known for its well-preserved traditional Naxi ethnic architecture, with a more peaceful flavor of life. Baisha Ancient Town: If you like a quieter vibe, Baisha is also recommended. It is also a quieter area offering great vantage points to enjoy vistas of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain from the windows of boutique hotels or cafés. Recommended Accommodation Areas in Shangri-La Dukezong Ancient Town: This is a popular choice for first-timers. It is relatively busy with diverse accommodation and dining options, as well as more activities to experience Tibetan culture, such as various photo studios for Tibetan-style photo shoots and a giant prayer wheel for blessings. Around Songzanlin Monastery: This is a great and quieter location for enjoying the holy and silent ambiance, providing spectacular views of the monastery. 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture Budget for a Lijiang and Shangri-La Trip A classic Lijiang and Shangri-La private tour costs $200–250 USD per person per day. The quotation is based on at least two people, including private transport, 4- or 5-star hotels, attraction fees, lunches, and a top-rated local English-speaking guide.