ID: 2866dbe2a58a0f50
Title: One-day Private Tour to Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon and Baofeng Lake
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/zhangjiajie/1-day-zhangjiajie-grand-canyon-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon has luxuriant vegetation and fresh air. The highest and longest Glass Bridge is an unmissable spot here. Standing on the bridge, you can have a panoramic view of the canyon at your feet. After the terrifying glass bridge, take a boat on Baofeng Lake to enjoy the beautiful, tranquil sceneries of breath-taking cliffs. Taking this one-day private tour with no other participants to feel the charming of the nature, take a deep breath and escape from your busy daily life. Tour Highlights Enjoy stunning views and endure sweaty palms on the terrifying Glass Bridge in the canyon. Take a boat on Baofeng Lake, and admire the beauty of the nature in a calm way. Private tour with your dedicated English-speaking local guide who has full knowledge of Zhangjiajie. Escape from your busy routine to take a deep breath in the green water and mountains. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English. Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience. Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space. Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 – 10:00AMPick up to Grand Canyon Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. Then brings you to our first stop--the Grand Canyon. On the way, hearing intriguing facts about this natural wonder from your guide. Get into your private car Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie downtown. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our drivers has a driver's licence with at least 5 years of driving experience. It makes sure you have a safe trip. While our vehicles are comfortable and spacious. It equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 10:00 – 12:00PMVisit the Grand Canyon Glass Bridge Rivulets and waterfalls can be seen everywhere in the Grand Canyon. Streams are filled with a layer of mist, just like a land of idyllic beauty. It will be quite cool in summer when you in the canyon. Walk along the rivulet Streams between canyons Glass Bridge is a major feature here. The bridge stretches between two dramatic cliffs. It's 380 meters long, 6 meters wide and 300 meters above the ground level. It was designed to be invisible as possible - a white bridge disappearing into the clouds. Its floor is made of 99 panels of multilayered glass, allowing those who dare to cross the chance to see just how far above the ground they stand. Full-view of Glass Bridge Bridge deck made of glass When walking on the bridge you can see all the way down to the bottom of the canyon through the glass bridge. Your personal tour guide will take photos and video for you, with which you can show off your courage to the whole world! Tumbling on the bridge Posing for a great photo Lying in the glass bridge Good to Know: The glass bridge is likely to close in severe weather. Only a maximum of 600 people are allowed on the bridge at one time, everyone needs to wear shoe cover which provided by the staff here. Visitors can only bring wallets and mobiles with suitable cases on the bridge. Do not attempt it if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, or a fear of heights. Metal ceramic, hard plastic bottles, walking sticks and other objects with sharp points can't be allowed to bring them on the bridge. 12:00 – 13:00PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the tour due to limited conditions on the mountain. If you want to eat lunch on the mountain, please ask your guide to recommend you a restaurant and pay at your own cost. But the price is a little higher than the restaurantsat downtown, so we suggest you to bring some food with you. Great lunch time 13:00 – 16:00PMGo Visit the Baofeng Lake Get away from the canyon, we will transfer 1 hour to the Baofeng Lake which is in a basin in the middle of this mountainous area. Surrounded by mountains, the lake is filled with pure runoff water from the mountain peaks. Looking down at the lake from the mountains, the lake is like a jade mirror. Waterfall in Baofeng Lake Jade Water At the lake we'll take you on a wooden boat for a 30-minute boat ride. It is a leisurely experience as you boat on the clear water. See the hills of various shapes, and enjoy entertainment by the local minority people as they sing their traditional songs. The wooden boat Enjoy the beauty on the lake Good to Know: There will be over 20 people in one boat, please ensure your safety when on the boat. 16:00 – 17:30PMDrive Back to Your Hotel After visiting the Baofeng Lake, this day trip comes to the end. Your guide and driver will transfer you back to your hotel. Customers on the bridge Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel in Zhangjiajie downtown. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie city. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Pick-up and drop-off area of Zhangjiajie What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon has luxuriant vegetation and fresh air. The highest and longest Glass Bridge is an unmissable spot here. Standing on the bridge, you can have a panoramic view of the canyon at your feet. After the terrifying glass bridge, take a boat on Baofeng Lake to enjoy the beautiful, tranquil sceneries of breath-taking cliffs. Taking this one-day private tour with no other participants to feel the charming of the nature, take a deep breath and escape from your busy daily life. Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon has luxuriant vegetation and fresh air. The highest and longest Glass Bridge is an unmissable spot here. Standing on the bridge, you can have a panoramic view of the canyon at your feet. After the terrifying glass bridge, take a boat on Baofeng Lake to enjoy the beautiful, tranquil sceneries of breath-taking cliffs. Taking this one-day private tour with no other participants to feel the charming of the nature, take a deep breath and escape from your busy daily life. Tour Highlights Enjoy stunning views and endure sweaty palms on the terrifying Glass Bridge in the canyon. Take a boat on Baofeng Lake, and admire the beauty of the nature in a calm way. Private tour with your dedicated English-speaking local guide who has full knowledge of Zhangjiajie. Escape from your busy routine to take a deep breath in the green water and mountains. • Enjoy stunning views and endure sweaty palms on the terrifying Glass Bridge in the canyon. • Take a boat on Baofeng Lake, and admire the beauty of the nature in a calm way. • Private tour with your dedicated English-speaking local guide who has full knowledge of Zhangjiajie. • Escape from your busy routine to take a deep breath in the green water and mountains. The Design of the Day Trip Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English. Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience. Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space. Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. The Design of the Day Trip • Guide: better than a normal licensed tour guide; friendly and helpful with fluent English. • Driver: reliable licensed local driver with at least 5 years' driving experience. • Vehicle: Air-conditioned business car with GPS facilities, big windows, and ample space. • Professional product team analysis on every part of the trip to ensure a smooth and enjoyable travel experience. Detailed Itinerary Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 – 10:00AMPick up to Grand Canyon Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. Then brings you to our first stop--the Grand Canyon. On the way, hearing intriguing facts about this natural wonder from your guide. Get into your private car Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie downtown. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our drivers has a driver's licence with at least 5 years of driving experience. It makes sure you have a safe trip. While our vehicles are comfortable and spacious. It equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 10:00 – 12:00PMVisit the Grand Canyon Glass Bridge Rivulets and waterfalls can be seen everywhere in the Grand Canyon. Streams are filled with a layer of mist, just like a land of idyllic beauty. It will be quite cool in summer when you in the canyon. Walk along the rivulet Streams between canyons Glass Bridge is a major feature here. The bridge stretches between two dramatic cliffs. It's 380 meters long, 6 meters wide and 300 meters above the ground level. It was designed to be invisible as possible - a white bridge disappearing into the clouds. Its floor is made of 99 panels of multilayered glass, allowing those who dare to cross the chance to see just how far above the ground they stand. Full-view of Glass Bridge Bridge deck made of glass When walking on the bridge you can see all the way down to the bottom of the canyon through the glass bridge. Your personal tour guide will take photos and video for you, with which you can show off your courage to the whole world! Tumbling on the bridge Posing for a great photo Lying in the glass bridge Good to Know: The glass bridge is likely to close in severe weather. Only a maximum of 600 people are allowed on the bridge at one time, everyone needs to wear shoe cover which provided by the staff here. Visitors can only bring wallets and mobiles with suitable cases on the bridge. Do not attempt it if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, or a fear of heights. Metal ceramic, hard plastic bottles, walking sticks and other objects with sharp points can't be allowed to bring them on the bridge. 12:00 – 13:00PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the tour due to limited conditions on the mountain. If you want to eat lunch on the mountain, please ask your guide to recommend you a restaurant and pay at your own cost. But the price is a little higher than the restaurantsat downtown, so we suggest you to bring some food with you. Great lunch time 13:00 – 16:00PMGo Visit the Baofeng Lake Get away from the canyon, we will transfer 1 hour to the Baofeng Lake which is in a basin in the middle of this mountainous area. Surrounded by mountains, the lake is filled with pure runoff water from the mountain peaks. Looking down at the lake from the mountains, the lake is like a jade mirror. Waterfall in Baofeng Lake Jade Water At the lake we'll take you on a wooden boat for a 30-minute boat ride. It is a leisurely experience as you boat on the clear water. See the hills of various shapes, and enjoy entertainment by the local minority people as they sing their traditional songs. The wooden boat Enjoy the beauty on the lake Good to Know: There will be over 20 people in one boat, please ensure your safety when on the boat. 16:00 – 17:30PMDrive Back to Your Hotel After visiting the Baofeng Lake, this day trip comes to the end. Your guide and driver will transfer you back to your hotel. Customers on the bridge Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Close All The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 – 10:00AMPick up to Grand Canyon Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. Then brings you to our first stop--the Grand Canyon. On the way, hearing intriguing facts about this natural wonder from your guide. Get into your private car Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie downtown. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our drivers has a driver's licence with at least 5 years of driving experience. It makes sure you have a safe trip. While our vehicles are comfortable and spacious. It equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 10:00 – 12:00PMVisit the Grand Canyon Glass Bridge Rivulets and waterfalls can be seen everywhere in the Grand Canyon. Streams are filled with a layer of mist, just like a land of idyllic beauty. It will be quite cool in summer when you in the canyon. Walk along the rivulet Streams between canyons Glass Bridge is a major feature here. The bridge stretches between two dramatic cliffs. It's 380 meters long, 6 meters wide and 300 meters above the ground level. It was designed to be invisible as possible - a white bridge disappearing into the clouds. Its floor is made of 99 panels of multilayered glass, allowing those who dare to cross the chance to see just how far above the ground they stand. Full-view of Glass Bridge Bridge deck made of glass When walking on the bridge you can see all the way down to the bottom of the canyon through the glass bridge. Your personal tour guide will take photos and video for you, with which you can show off your courage to the whole world! Tumbling on the bridge Posing for a great photo Lying in the glass bridge Good to Know: The glass bridge is likely to close in severe weather. Only a maximum of 600 people are allowed on the bridge at one time, everyone needs to wear shoe cover which provided by the staff here. Visitors can only bring wallets and mobiles with suitable cases on the bridge. Do not attempt it if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, or a fear of heights. Metal ceramic, hard plastic bottles, walking sticks and other objects with sharp points can't be allowed to bring them on the bridge. 12:00 – 13:00PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the tour due to limited conditions on the mountain. If you want to eat lunch on the mountain, please ask your guide to recommend you a restaurant and pay at your own cost. But the price is a little higher than the restaurantsat downtown, so we suggest you to bring some food with you. Great lunch time 13:00 – 16:00PMGo Visit the Baofeng Lake Get away from the canyon, we will transfer 1 hour to the Baofeng Lake which is in a basin in the middle of this mountainous area. Surrounded by mountains, the lake is filled with pure runoff water from the mountain peaks. Looking down at the lake from the mountains, the lake is like a jade mirror. Waterfall in Baofeng Lake Jade Water At the lake we'll take you on a wooden boat for a 30-minute boat ride. It is a leisurely experience as you boat on the clear water. See the hills of various shapes, and enjoy entertainment by the local minority people as they sing their traditional songs. The wooden boat Enjoy the beauty on the lake Good to Know: There will be over 20 people in one boat, please ensure your safety when on the boat. 16:00 – 17:30PMDrive Back to Your Hotel After visiting the Baofeng Lake, this day trip comes to the end. Your guide and driver will transfer you back to your hotel. Customers on the bridge Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. The day before your tour date You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. You'll receive a welcome call from your guide via hotel at the night before your tour day, he/she will double confirm the pick-up time for the next day's trip with you. If you are not available at that moment, the tour guide will leave a message for you. Just in case that if you don't receive our emails or phone calls, please call our 24-hour hotline at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666 and we will put things right. 8:30 – 10:00AMPick up to Grand Canyon Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. Then brings you to our first stop--the Grand Canyon. On the way, hearing intriguing facts about this natural wonder from your guide. Get into your private car Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie downtown. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our drivers has a driver's licence with at least 5 years of driving experience. It makes sure you have a safe trip. While our vehicles are comfortable and spacious. It equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 8:30 – 10:00AMPick up to Grand Canyon Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. Then brings you to our first stop--the Grand Canyon. On the way, hearing intriguing facts about this natural wonder from your guide. Get into your private car Good to Know: The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie downtown. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Our drivers has a driver's licence with at least 5 years of driving experience. It makes sure you have a safe trip. While our vehicles are comfortable and spacious. It equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel lobby which is centrally located in Zhangjiajie City at 8:30AM holding a sign with your name on it. Then brings you to our first stop--the Grand Canyon. On the way, hearing intriguing facts about this natural wonder from your guide. Get into your private car • The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie downtown. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. • Our drivers has a driver's licence with at least 5 years of driving experience. It makes sure you have a safe trip. • While our vehicles are comfortable and spacious. It equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners and free bottled water. 10:00 – 12:00PMVisit the Grand Canyon Glass Bridge Rivulets and waterfalls can be seen everywhere in the Grand Canyon. Streams are filled with a layer of mist, just like a land of idyllic beauty. It will be quite cool in summer when you in the canyon. Walk along the rivulet Streams between canyons Glass Bridge is a major feature here. The bridge stretches between two dramatic cliffs. It's 380 meters long, 6 meters wide and 300 meters above the ground level. It was designed to be invisible as possible - a white bridge disappearing into the clouds. Its floor is made of 99 panels of multilayered glass, allowing those who dare to cross the chance to see just how far above the ground they stand. Full-view of Glass Bridge Bridge deck made of glass When walking on the bridge you can see all the way down to the bottom of the canyon through the glass bridge. Your personal tour guide will take photos and video for you, with which you can show off your courage to the whole world! Tumbling on the bridge Posing for a great photo Lying in the glass bridge Good to Know: The glass bridge is likely to close in severe weather. Only a maximum of 600 people are allowed on the bridge at one time, everyone needs to wear shoe cover which provided by the staff here. Visitors can only bring wallets and mobiles with suitable cases on the bridge. Do not attempt it if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, or a fear of heights. Metal ceramic, hard plastic bottles, walking sticks and other objects with sharp points can't be allowed to bring them on the bridge. 10:00 – 12:00PMVisit the Grand Canyon Glass Bridge Rivulets and waterfalls can be seen everywhere in the Grand Canyon. Streams are filled with a layer of mist, just like a land of idyllic beauty. It will be quite cool in summer when you in the canyon. Walk along the rivulet Streams between canyons Glass Bridge is a major feature here. The bridge stretches between two dramatic cliffs. It's 380 meters long, 6 meters wide and 300 meters above the ground level. It was designed to be invisible as possible - a white bridge disappearing into the clouds. Its floor is made of 99 panels of multilayered glass, allowing those who dare to cross the chance to see just how far above the ground they stand. Full-view of Glass Bridge Bridge deck made of glass When walking on the bridge you can see all the way down to the bottom of the canyon through the glass bridge. Your personal tour guide will take photos and video for you, with which you can show off your courage to the whole world! Tumbling on the bridge Posing for a great photo Lying in the glass bridge Good to Know: The glass bridge is likely to close in severe weather. Only a maximum of 600 people are allowed on the bridge at one time, everyone needs to wear shoe cover which provided by the staff here. Visitors can only bring wallets and mobiles with suitable cases on the bridge. Do not attempt it if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, or a fear of heights. Metal ceramic, hard plastic bottles, walking sticks and other objects with sharp points can't be allowed to bring them on the bridge. Rivulets and waterfalls can be seen everywhere in the Grand Canyon. Streams are filled with a layer of mist, just like a land of idyllic beauty. It will be quite cool in summer when you in the canyon. Walk along the rivulet Streams between canyons Glass Bridge is a major feature here. The bridge stretches between two dramatic cliffs. It's 380 meters long, 6 meters wide and 300 meters above the ground level. It was designed to be invisible as possible - a white bridge disappearing into the clouds. Its floor is made of 99 panels of multilayered glass, allowing those who dare to cross the chance to see just how far above the ground they stand. Full-view of Glass Bridge Bridge deck made of glass When walking on the bridge you can see all the way down to the bottom of the canyon through the glass bridge. Your personal tour guide will take photos and video for you, with which you can show off your courage to the whole world! Tumbling on the bridge Posing for a great photo Lying in the glass bridge • The glass bridge is likely to close in severe weather. • Only a maximum of 600 people are allowed on the bridge at one time, everyone needs to wear shoe cover which provided by the staff here. • Visitors can only bring wallets and mobiles with suitable cases on the bridge. • Do not attempt it if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, or a fear of heights. • Metal ceramic, hard plastic bottles, walking sticks and other objects with sharp points can't be allowed to bring them on the bridge. 12:00 – 13:00PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the tour due to limited conditions on the mountain. If you want to eat lunch on the mountain, please ask your guide to recommend you a restaurant and pay at your own cost. But the price is a little higher than the restaurantsat downtown, so we suggest you to bring some food with you. Great lunch time 12:00 – 13:00PMLunch Time Lunch is not included in the tour due to limited conditions on the mountain. If you want to eat lunch on the mountain, please ask your guide to recommend you a restaurant and pay at your own cost. But the price is a little higher than the restaurantsat downtown, so we suggest you to bring some food with you. Great lunch time Lunch is not included in the tour due to limited conditions on the mountain. If you want to eat lunch on the mountain, please ask your guide to recommend you a restaurant and pay at your own cost. But the price is a little higher than the restaurantsat downtown, so we suggest you to bring some food with you. 13:00 – 16:00PMGo Visit the Baofeng Lake Get away from the canyon, we will transfer 1 hour to the Baofeng Lake which is in a basin in the middle of this mountainous area. Surrounded by mountains, the lake is filled with pure runoff water from the mountain peaks. Looking down at the lake from the mountains, the lake is like a jade mirror. Waterfall in Baofeng Lake Jade Water At the lake we'll take you on a wooden boat for a 30-minute boat ride. It is a leisurely experience as you boat on the clear water. See the hills of various shapes, and enjoy entertainment by the local minority people as they sing their traditional songs. The wooden boat Enjoy the beauty on the lake Good to Know: There will be over 20 people in one boat, please ensure your safety when on the boat. 13:00 – 16:00PMGo Visit the Baofeng Lake Get away from the canyon, we will transfer 1 hour to the Baofeng Lake which is in a basin in the middle of this mountainous area. Surrounded by mountains, the lake is filled with pure runoff water from the mountain peaks. Looking down at the lake from the mountains, the lake is like a jade mirror. Waterfall in Baofeng Lake Jade Water At the lake we'll take you on a wooden boat for a 30-minute boat ride. It is a leisurely experience as you boat on the clear water. See the hills of various shapes, and enjoy entertainment by the local minority people as they sing their traditional songs. The wooden boat Enjoy the beauty on the lake Good to Know: There will be over 20 people in one boat, please ensure your safety when on the boat. Get away from the canyon, we will transfer 1 hour to the Baofeng Lake which is in a basin in the middle of this mountainous area. Surrounded by mountains, the lake is filled with pure runoff water from the mountain peaks. Looking down at the lake from the mountains, the lake is like a jade mirror. Waterfall in Baofeng Lake At the lake we'll take you on a wooden boat for a 30-minute boat ride. It is a leisurely experience as you boat on the clear water. See the hills of various shapes, and enjoy entertainment by the local minority people as they sing their traditional songs. Enjoy the beauty on the lake • There will be over 20 people in one boat, please ensure your safety when on the boat. 16:00 – 17:30PMDrive Back to Your Hotel After visiting the Baofeng Lake, this day trip comes to the end. Your guide and driver will transfer you back to your hotel. Customers on the bridge Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook 16:00 – 17:30PMDrive Back to Your Hotel After visiting the Baofeng Lake, this day trip comes to the end. Your guide and driver will transfer you back to your hotel. Customers on the bridge Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook After visiting the Baofeng Lake, this day trip comes to the end. Your guide and driver will transfer you back to your hotel. Customers on the bridge Thank you for choosing Trippest. Your satisfaction will be our greatest motivation and joy. It would be a great encouragement to us if you would rate us on Tripadvisor or share your trip experience on your Facebook or blog! You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel in Zhangjiajie downtown. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel in Zhangjiajie downtown. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. Price Include: Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel in Zhangjiajie downtown. English-speaking expert local guide. Bottled water. Price Exclude: Lunch. Personal expenses. Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. • Admission to attractions listed on the itinerary. • Private transport, including pickup and return to your hotel in Zhangjiajie downtown. • English-speaking expert local guide. • Bottled water. • Lunch. • Personal expenses. • Gratuities to the tour guide & driver (usually CNY 50 - 100 per person, please tip them separately.). It is not compulsory but would be a great encouragement for them. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie city. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Pick-up and drop-off area of Zhangjiajie What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie city. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Pick-up and drop-off area of Zhangjiajie What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie city. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Pick-up and drop-off area of Zhangjiajie The hotel pick-up and drop-off area should be within Zhangjiajie city. For further distance there might be an extra cost for the transfer which you'll be notified by your travel advisor. Pick-up and drop-off area of Zhangjiajie What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for cancelled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms for cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com In order to making sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and make sure the availability we usually require customer make their booking at least 24 hours in advance and that's why you can not book directly on-line for a 24-hour last-minute booking. But that does not mean you have no chance to book a last-minute trip within 24 hours. For urgent booking, please make a phone call to us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or send an email (not recommended as you may not get the response immediately) at: inquiry@trippest.com How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. How to connect Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and other social medias when you're traveling in China? Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. Due to state control of internet security in China, many popular websites and APPs are blocked, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, WhatsApp etc. It is very possible that you may not be able to receive your emails and other important information. For this reason, we highly recommend you to sign up for a VPN service(for example, ExpressVPN) before your trip, to make sure you can connect to the global internet. Good to know: Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 207 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 207 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 207 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20