ID: 7be7ea4ba24ea82c
Title: Best Time to Visit Chaozhou and Shantou (Weather, Clothing Tips)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chaozhou-shantou/best-time-to-visit.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-04-30T00:00:00
================================================================================

Chaozhou and Shantou are great to visit year-round, with delicious food in every season. They also feature historical and cultural sites, which aren't affected much by the weather. But if you prefer fewer crowds, good weather and pleasant temperatures, spring and autumn are the best times to visit. You can read more in this article to find the best time for local folk activities, seafood season, or clothing tips. • Best time for Weather and Crowds • Best Time for Festive Vibe • Worst Time to Visit • Chaozhou Weather and Temperatures • Weather Guide by Month When is the Best time for Good Weather and Few Crowds？ Best Time to Visit Chaozhou and Shantou The first recommended time is October and November, ranging from 18-30°C (64-86°F). During this time, the weather is mostly clear and dry, and it feels pleasantly cool. You can also enjoy fewer visitors and a cost-effective travel budget. Also, it's the best seafood season. The second option is mid-March to April, with warm and moist weather (15-27°C/59-81°F). It's the best time for flowers and tea picking, with fewer crowds and lower costs. Light rain is common but won't really affect your trip. Recommended Tour: 3-Day Chaozhou and Shantou Tour Recommended Tour: 3-Day Chaozhou and Shantou Tour The Best Times for Local Folk Activities Chinese New Year and Lantern Festival are the liveliest times in Chaoshan. You can watch Yingge dance, big gong and drum shows, God-Wandering, fireworks, lion and dragon dances, etc. But it's also the peak travel season, with large crowds, the highest hotel prices of the year, and traffic jams. During the Dragon Boat Festival, you can witness grand dragon boat races and blessing ceremonies, with firecrackers, drums, and gongs filling the air. During the Mid-Autumn Festival, there are burning kiln tiles, the moon-worshipping ceremony, and various pastries and Teochew mooncakes. Most customs can only be experienced in local villages, but if you're just looking to watch the performances, you'll find plenty in Chaozhou Ancient City and Shantou Old Town. The Worst Times to Visit Chaozhou and Shantou June to August is not so ideal for visiting due to the hot and humid weather (34°C/93°F). It also sees strong sunlight, more storms, occasional typhoons, and more crowds in July and August. Also, avoid major holidays like Labor Day (May 1st-5th) and National Day (October 1st-7th). Chaozhou and Shantou are not very big, so during holidays, they easily get crowded, leading to heavy traffic, long waits for meals and even no available tables in some restaurants. While at some popular attractions, you may have to queue for 1-3 hours. Chaozhou Weather and Temperatures Note: Chaoshan area, including Chaozhou, Shantou, and Jieyang, has similar weather as they're close to each other. The information above is based on Chaozhou's weather as a reference. In both Chaozhou and Shantou, March to April is cool or warm, but also moist. May to September is hot and humid. October to November brings cool, dry weather, while December to February is colder, but still mild with no snow. The rainy season is from April to September. Chaozhou Weather and Temperatures Read more to find the top things to do in Chaozhou and Shantou. Chaozhou and Shantou Weather Guide by Month January: Tourist Off-Season • Average daily temperature: (11–20°C/52–68°F) • Average rainy days: 6 • Average cloudy days: 18 • Average sunny days: 7 • clothing: long sleeves, sweaters, long pants, a thicker jacket, or a light down coat January sees fewer crowds and affordable travel costs. However, the weather is mostly cloudy, which might affect photo quality. For example, the sea in Nan'ao may not look deep blue. On sunny days, it feels warm, but occasional cold air can make it quite chilly. Rain is rare, and temperatures stay mild overall, making it a fairly good time to visit. February: Best for Lively Festive Activities • Average daily temperature: (12–20°C/54–68°F) • Average rainy days: 5 • Average cloudy days: 19 • Average sunny days: 4 • Clothing: long sleeves, sweaters, long pants, a thicker jacket, or a light down coat The weather in February is similar to January, but February feels more festive due to the Chinese New Year. You can also watch many grand performances in Chaozhou Ancient City and Shantou Old Town, and find plenty of good eats. If you want to experience the festive vibe and folk customs, I recommend visiting during the Lantern Festival or several days after. There are fewer crowds compared to the Spring Festival, hotel prices are lower, and the celebrations are at their peak. Chaoshan Yingge Dance Performance March and April: Ideal for Flower Viewing and Tea Picking • Average daily temperature: (15–27°C/59–81°F) • Average rainy days: 9-12 • Average cloudy days: 17 • Average sunny days: 2-5 • Clothing: short sleeves with a thin coat and long pants, umbrella If you prefer a spring vibe, it's an ideal time when the weather's warm or pleasantly cool, crowds are few, and prices are lower. Although there are more cloudy or drizzly days, the blooming flowers make the scenery beautiful, with kapok and bauhinia in full bloom. The kapok flowers near Guangji Bridge are the most stunning and perfect for photos. It's also the best season for spring tea picking on Phoenix Mountain and enjoying the alpine azaleas. I went there in early April. It was about 28°C during the day and 18°C at night. I wore a T-shirt with a light jacket, and it was enough for the day. But I felt a bit chilly at night when it rained. You could pack an extra long-sleeve top just in case. May and June: Best for Indoor Handicrafts and Tea drinking • Average daily temperature: (23–33°C/73–91°F) • Average rainy days: 14-16 • Average cloudy days: 13-16 • Average sunny days: 1 • Clothing: short sleeves, long dress, UV-blocking jacket, sunscreen, umbrella May and June can be hot with more rainfall, but compared to July and August, the sunlight isn't as intense, and crowds are fewer, except during the May Day holiday. If you visit during this time, be prepared for the heavy rains, as it rains most in May and June. Indoor activities are a good way to enjoy the time, like drinking Cougou tea and watching Teochew Opera at a teahouse, or trying traditional handicrafts, like making Png Kueh, woodcarvings, teapots, and oil-paper lanterns etc. When it doesn't rain, the outdoor scenery is also beautiful with lush greenery. Try woodcarving making July and August: Peak Season • Average daily temperature: (27–34°C/81–93°F) • Average rainy days: 14 • Average cloudy days: 15 • Average sunny days: 2 • Clothing: short sleeves, UV-blocking jacket, sunscreen, umbrella, mosquito repellent The weather is hot and humid, with frequent storms, but they usually don't last long and quickly turn cloudy or sunny. It's also the summer holiday, so you will meet more crowds. Late August will be less crowded, as the new school term approaches. However, it's also a great time to enjoy all kinds of iced desserts in Chaozhou and Shantou, like shaved ice, sweet soups, and fresh fruits. Evenings are cooler, making it perfect for a stroll to enjoy the city's night views, light shows, or explore the lively food streets. September: Shoulder Season • Average daily temperature: (25–33°C/77–91°F) • Average rainy days: 7 • Average cloudy days: 19 • Average sunny days: 4 • Clothing: short sleeves, dresses Although it's still hot in September, the weather is drier with less rainfall, and the crowds from summer are gone. It's pleasant to visit Nan'ao Island for the beach, fishing, and water activities like motorboating. Please feel free to contact us if you want to plan a private Chaozhou and Shantou tour. October and November: Best Season with Pleasant Weather • Average daily temperature: (20–30°C/68–86°F) • Average rainy days: 3-5 • Average cloudy days: 18 • Average sunny days: 5-10 • Clothing: short sleeves with a thin coat and long pants. After the National Day holiday, the crowds lessen, travel prices drop, and the weather and pleasant, not too hot. You can enjoy more sunny and dry days, as well as the best seafood season, with a wide variety of seafood, especially crabs and fish. You're more likely to catch a beautiful sunset, and it's ideal to take a ferry for sunset over the sea, or stay around Guangji Bridge to enjoy the sunset framed by the ancient building. At this time, the views at Queshi Scenic Area are excellent, and the sea in Nan'ao Island is mostly deep blue, making it perfect for photos. While in Chaozhou Ancient City, you can capture pleasant pink silk floss trees in full bloom. December: Tourist Off-Season • Average daily temperature: (13–21°C/55–70°F) • Average rainy days: 4 • Average cloudy days: 20 • Average sunny days: 7 • Clothing: long sleeves, sweaters, long pants, a thicker jacket or a light down coat Chaozhou and Shantou are not really cold in winter. Sometimes it's warm during the day, and a sweater is enough. But you'll need a jacket for the chilly morning and evening. The weather is mostly cloudy with little rain and fewer tourists, making it a great time to visit. During sunny days, Nan'ao Island is warm to visit with clear blue sea, but it can get quite windy, so bring a hat if you're heading there.