ID: 21e2319fdbb017a6
Title: Top Chengdu Tours 2026: Pandas, Food, Slow-Paced Escape
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chengdu/tours.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Chengdu was known as the 'land of abundance' in ancient China for its abundant grain products and rich and stunning landscapes. Traveling with China Highlights, you will: Not only see the cute pandas in the breeding base, but also explore their natural habitat. Not only try the famous hot pot, but also learn to cook Sichuan cuisine from a local chef. Not only experience the vibrant city, but also discover the amazing landscapes that most foreign tourists don't know about. Whether you visit Chengdu for pandas, Sichuan food, or an adventure tour from Chengdu to Jiuzhaigou, we are happy to customize your trip according to your preferences. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. Chengdu was known as the 'land of abundance' in ancient China for its abundant grain products and rich and stunning landscapes. Traveling with China Highlights, you will: Not only see the cute pandas in the breeding base, but also explore their natural habitat. Not only try the famous hot pot, but also learn to cook Sichuan cuisine from a local chef. Not only experience the vibrant city, but also discover the amazing landscapes that most foreign tourists don't know about. Whether you visit Chengdu for pandas, Sichuan food, or an adventure tour from Chengdu to Jiuzhaigou, we are happy to customize your trip according to your preferences. Chengdu was known as the 'land of abundance' in ancient China for its abundant grain products and rich and stunning landscapes. Traveling with China Highlights, you will: • Not only see the cute pandas in the breeding base, but also explore their natural habitat. • Not only try the famous hot pot, but also learn to cook Sichuan cuisine from a local chef. • Not only experience the vibrant city, but also discover the amazing landscapes that most foreign tourists don't know about. Whether you visit Chengdu for pandas, Sichuan food, or an adventure tour from Chengdu to Jiuzhaigou, we are happy to customize your trip according to your preferences. With China Highlights, your travel will be: FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. With China Highlights, your travel will be: • FlexibleTravel at your own pace and make last-minute changes. • ReliableWith over 20 years of experience, we provide 24/7 private advisor assistance. • No obligatory visits to tourist shopsWe do not organize visits to tourist shops unless you request them. Top Chengdu & Panda Private Tours These carefully crafted itineraries encompass all the essence and hotspots of Chengdu and its vicinity. Don't hesitate to tell us if you have your own ideas for designing a trip. 1-Day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program Tour Dujiangyan Panda Base (1½ hours away from Chengdu) View More 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour Wolong Panda Center (2½ hours away from Chengdu) View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou View More 5-Day Chengdu Food, Faith & Scenic Wonders Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei View More 3-Day Giant Panda and Giant Buddha Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha View More 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao View More 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Sichuan Cuisine Tour Panda Base, Original Farmers' Market, and Cooking Ckass View More 3-Day Mount Siguniang Tour from Chengdu Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang View More Top Chengdu & Panda Private Tours These carefully crafted itineraries encompass all the essence and hotspots of Chengdu and its vicinity. Don't hesitate to tell us if you have your own ideas for designing a trip. 1-Day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program Tour Dujiangyan Panda Base (1½ hours away from Chengdu) View More 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour Wolong Panda Center (2½ hours away from Chengdu) View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou View More 5-Day Chengdu Food, Faith & Scenic Wonders Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei View More 1-Day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program Tour Dujiangyan Panda Base (1½ hours away from Chengdu) View More 1-Day Dujiangyan Panda Volunteer Program Tour Dujiangyan Panda Base (1½ hours away from Chengdu) View More Dujiangyan Panda Base (1½ hours away from Chengdu) 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour Wolong Panda Center (2½ hours away from Chengdu) View More 1-Day Wolong Panda Volunteer Program Tour Wolong Panda Center (2½ hours away from Chengdu) View More Wolong Panda Center (2½ hours away from Chengdu) 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou View More 7-Day Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou Fairyland Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou View More Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, Mt. Emei, and Jiuzhaigou 5-Day Chengdu Food, Faith & Scenic Wonders Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei View More 5-Day Chengdu Food, Faith & Scenic Wonders Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei View More Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha, and Mt. Emei 3-Day Giant Panda and Giant Buddha Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha View More 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao View More 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Sichuan Cuisine Tour Panda Base, Original Farmers' Market, and Cooking Ckass View More 3-Day Mount Siguniang Tour from Chengdu Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang View More 3-Day Giant Panda and Giant Buddha Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha View More 3-Day Giant Panda and Giant Buddha Tour Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha View More Chengdu, Leshan Giant Buddha 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao View More 4-Day Western Sichuan Tibetan Spring Tour from Chengdu Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao View More Bipeng Valley, Jinchuan Valley, Danba Tibetan Village, Tagong Grassland, and Xinduqiao 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Sichuan Cuisine Tour Panda Base, Original Farmers' Market, and Cooking Ckass View More 1-Day Chengdu Panda and Sichuan Cuisine Tour Panda Base, Original Farmers' Market, and Cooking Ckass View More Panda Base, Original Farmers' Market, and Cooking Ckass 3-Day Mount Siguniang Tour from Chengdu Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang View More 3-Day Mount Siguniang Tour from Chengdu Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang View More Dujiangyan Panda Base, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, and Mt. Siguniang Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Top China Tours including Chengdu Chengdu is definitely recommended for the first-timers to China. These are some popular China tours including Chengdu, meticulously crafted to suit different travel days and travel companions. 8-Day China Culinary Adventure Tour Beijing, Chengdu, and Guangzhou View More 9-Day China Mountains and Waterscapes Tour Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu, and Zhangjiajie View More 12-Day China Classic Wonders and Panda Keeper Experience Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More More China Tours Top China Tours including Chengdu Chengdu is definitely recommended for the first-timers to China. These are some popular China tours including Chengdu, meticulously crafted to suit different travel days and travel companions. 8-Day China Culinary Adventure Tour Beijing, Chengdu, and Guangzhou View More 9-Day China Mountains and Waterscapes Tour Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu, and Zhangjiajie View More 12-Day China Classic Wonders and Panda Keeper Experience Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 8-Day China Culinary Adventure Tour Beijing, Chengdu, and Guangzhou View More 8-Day China Culinary Adventure Tour Beijing, Chengdu, and Guangzhou View More Beijing, Chengdu, and Guangzhou 9-Day China Mountains and Waterscapes Tour Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu, and Zhangjiajie View More 9-Day China Mountains and Waterscapes Tour Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu, and Zhangjiajie View More Jiuzhaigou, Chengdu, and Zhangjiajie 12-Day China Classic Wonders and Panda Keeper Experience Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Guilin, and Shanghai View More 12-Day China Classic Wonders and Panda Keeper Experience Tour Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Guilin, and Shanghai View More Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Guilin, and Shanghai 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More 18-Day Classic China Tour with Yunnan Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing View More Shanghai, Guilin, Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, Shangri-la, Chengdu, Xi'an, and Beijing Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Roger Travel Advisor CarolTravel Advisor LeekyTravel Advisor Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice Start Planning Contact a Travel Expert To Customize Your China Trip 1-to-1 service/Reply within 24hrs/Expert's Advice