ID: 17902ca9a7c2643b
Title: Is May a Good Time to Visit Yunnan? (What to Wear and Where to Go)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/yunnan/weather-in-may.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

May in Yunnan is a good time to visit Yunnan. The weather is pleasant, with a mix of clear and cloudy days as well as a few rainy days. It is best for admiring flowers, enjoying spring outings like hiking, or immersing yourself in diverse local ethnic cultures and traditional handicraft experiences. • Yunnan Weather in May • Top 5 Places to Visit • Crowds and Costs Yunnan Weather in May In May, the temperature in Yunnan continuously warms up, ranging from 15°C to 26°C (59–79°F). The weather is mostly a blend of cloudy and clear days, with light rain at times. The central regions enjoy warm and comfortable daytime temperatures. By contrast, northern regions remain cool, while southern regions experience hot temperatures. Northern Yunnan (Lijiang and Shangri-La) In Lijiang, the temperature in May varies between 10°C and 25°C (50–77°F), featuring a mix of clear and cloudy days. Days are generally comfortable, with cooler mornings and evenings. Mountainous areas remain half snowcapped but the weather could be changeable. Shangri-La in May is just entering spring, with average daily temperatures of about 8°C to 20°C (46–68°F). More clear days could be seen in May but the weather is cool during the daytime and cold at night. Clothing suggestions: In Lijiang, layer light breathable clothes during the day and take a thin coat for the cooler nights. In Shangri-La, wear warmer clothes, such as sweaters and windbreakers. Central Yunnan (Kunming and Dali) Kunming and Dali both enjoy comfortable weather in May, alternating between sunny and cloudy days, with occasional rain. The average daytime temperature hovers around 20°C to 23°C (68–73°F) but it could drop to 13°C to 15°C (55–59°F) during the cool mornings and nights. Clothing suggestions: Lightweight clothes, such as shirts and long dresses, are fine for the daytime. Add a thin coat or a shawl at night. Southern Yunnan (Xishuangbanna) In May, Xishuangbanna still experiences the dry season and is the hottest month. The average daily temperature could reach nearly 34°C (93°F), especially in the afternoon. It is more comfortable to go out at night with the cooler temperatures around 22°C (72°F). Clothing suggestions: Even at night, Xishuangbanna stays warm, so cotton or breathable clothes like shorts, skirts, and T-shirts are ideal for the whole day. 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour 9-Day Yunnan Highlights with Spring Blossoms Tour Top 5 Places to Visit in Yunnan in May The warmer and changeable weather in May makes it suitable for viewing scenery, exploring ancient towns, and going hiking. Spruce Meadow on Jade Dragon Snow Mountain As the May weather gradually warms up in Lijiang, you can immerse yourself in a purple flower sea. You could appreciate the meadows with blooming alpine azalea on the mountainside of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain. It may not be the best time to visit the summit of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, since the weather could be unpredictable. But you can still admire more snow and have a relatively high possibility to witness the sunrise on the snow mountains. You could consider visiting Blue Moon Valley and Spruce Meadow, which offer better scenery, especially in late May. After the May Day holidays, you could encounter fewer visitors, allowing for a more comfortable experience. Lijiang is ideal for exploring ancient towns, such as Lijiang Old Town and Shuhe Old Town, and local ethnic cultures in May. Flowers embellish the quaint ancient towns, creating a warm, peaceful, and vibrant vibe, and you could also immerse yourself in the Naxi culture. For some unique ethnic handicraft experiences, try traditional Naxi embroidery or make Naxi pancakes. You could find even more diverse ethnic handicraft experiences in the ancient towns. See our 6-Day Lijiang and Shangri-La Tour. Blooming azalea in Shangri-La Spring is just awakening in Shangri-La in May. With mostly clear and cloudy days and fewer travelers, it is an ideal month to catch vibrant early spring sights, such as visiting Napa Lake or Pudacuo National Park. May is also a delightful time to appreciate alpine azaleas bursting into blossom over the meadows and mountains. The best spots for azalea viewing are Bigu Lake and Laoyaoshan Meadow, but you could also admire the azalea blooming beside the roads. You can not miss exploring Tibetan culture while visiting Shangri-La. Songzanlin Monastery is a must-visit attraction, and you can experience hanging prayer flags or communicating with the monks. As the weather remains cool in May, it is also suitable for a warm Tibetan costume experience. For hiking enthusiasts, Shangri-La offers great hiking destinations, such as Tiger Leaping Gorge and Yubeng Village. During this month, you could still marvel at the clear river in Tiger Leaping Gorge, while encountering a vital spring in Yubeng Village. Recommended hiking tours: • 4-Day Tiger Leaping Gorge Hiking Tour • 4-Day Yubeng Village Hiking Tour In Kunming, May is perfect for admiring spectacular scenery and enchanting flower blossoms in the colorful late spring. Dongchuan Red Land is a vibrant tapestry of colors this month. The golden wheat, red soil, green highland barley, and lush potato seedlings create a stunning natural palette, making it perfect for photography. With more sunny days, the colors appear even more vivid. It is also a great time to visit the Stone Forest, where the grass is more verdant beneath the stone pillars. However, during the May Day holiday, it could get very crowded, while the alternative Naigu Stone Forest offers a quieter yet spectacular experience. You could also admire the purple jacaranda blossoms in early May. The jacarandas lining Jiaochang Middle Road are particularly breathtaking but expect large crowds during the May Day holidays. Alternatively, visit Cuihu Park, where a giant jacaranda is beautifully reflected in the lake. Rose Mansion beneath the Cangshan Mountains Even though half of May in Dali is clear, Er Lake doesn't appear to be so bright and is deep blue. However, you could take pleasure in lakeside activities and explore Cang Mountain or some ancient towns. The comfortable weather, with a breeze or mild wind, is suitable for cycling or driving around Erhai. You could also try enjoyable family activities, such as picking rose petals and then making fresh flower cakes in Rose Mansion, or creating tie-dyed handicrafts in Zhoucheng Village. It is also a great time to explore Cang Mountain. From mid to late May, you could encounter beautiful yellow alpine azalea blossoms over the mountains. For tea lovers, you could experience spring Pu'er tea-picking activities and make a tea cake. If you are looking for a slower pace of life and an authentic ancient town atmosphere, you could head to Shaxi Ancient Town. This tranquil historic town sees fewer travelers, even during holidays, and offers idyllic scenery with clear river water during this season. Read more about our Yunnan ethnic minority tour. Rising hot air balloon in Tengchong Tengchong, a hidden gem located in western Yunnan, enjoys refreshing scenery in May. You could escape the crowds, even during the May Day holiday. As the rainy season begins, it sees more rainy (typically showers) but cool days, with daily temperatures hovering around 14°C to 25°C (57–77°F). However, the rain won't dampen your experience; instead, it adds a fresh, vibrant touch to the landscape. If you enjoy retreating into the tranquility of nature, Beihai Wetland is an ideal destination, where you will encounter floating green grasslands during this season. Take a bamboo raft across a grassy meadow and watch the water birds nesting there, getting closer to nature. May could be a relaxing month, such as spending a leisurely time in Heshun Old Town, taking a hot-air balloon ride (kid-friendly) to have a bird's-eye view of volcanoes, and soaking in a soothing hot spring to counteract the cool temperature. In May, the May Day holiday (typically from 1st to 5th) would bring large crowds to Yunnan as many people in China take advantage of the long break to travel, causing ticket booking challenges and dramatically rising accommodation fees and airfares. You're advised to reserve your trip 1 to 2 months in advance or avoid visiting during the May Day holiday if you have a flexible schedule. The scenery is better in mid to late May and you could escape heavy crowds and high prices while visiting during this time. Recommended Yunnan Tours • 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang and Shangri-La Tour • 8-Day Yunnan Family Tour • 8-Day Yunnan Tour: Kunming, Dali, Shaxi, and Lijiang