ID: 2e407702631fec94
Title: Plan a Trip to Changsha, Zhangjiajie, and Fenghuang from Singapore
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-changsha-zhangjiajie-fenghuang.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Renowned for its unique sandstone-peak-forest landscape and extraordinary rock formations, Zhangjiajie is a fantastic destination for nature lovers. Nearby, Fenghuang Ancient Town offers picturesque wooden buildings along a river and convenient transportation. After an energetic trip exploring Zhangjiajie, you could relax and unwind in the leisurely atmosphere of Fenghuang. The most efficient way to get to Zhangjiajie from Singapore is to transfer in Changsha with a 5-hour flight. If you are interested in culture, Changsha is not just a transit point — it's also a place to immerse yourself in Hunan's rich history. • 1. How Many Days to Spend • 2. How to Get to • 3. Best Time to Visit • 4. Costs for Visiting How Many Days to Spend We recommend an itinerary of 9–10 days to tour Changsha, Zhangjiajie, and Fenghuang Ancient Town. If your time is limited, leave at least 6 days to visit the highlights of each place. • A cultural and historical journey You could explore the city's historical sites, such as Han Dynasty tombs in a museum and the thousand-year-old Yuelu Academy. You could also experience local life by savoring unique spicy cuisine and snacks, and enjoying the colorful river views at night. Zhangjiajie: 3–4 Days • Experience natural wonders Discover the awe-inspiring Avatar Hallelujah Mountain in Wulingyuan National Forest Park. Walk across the thrilling glass bridge in Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon and take the longest cable car ride up Tianmen Mountain for panoramic views. It's a good idea to arrange at least 1 day for each place. • Spend some leisure time in an ancient town The town's stunning river views, stone bridges, and verdant hills create a picturesque setting that is perfect for photography and leisurely strolls. The best way to explore the ancient city is to wander freely. All of the attractions are within the ancient city and easily accessible on foot. Our Top 2 Classic Changsha, Zhangjiajie, and Fenghuang Itineraries We recommend these two classic itineraries: a 10-day and a 7-day itinerary. Both cover the most iconic attractions in Changsha, Zhangjiajie, and Fenghuang, allowing you to choose based on your schedule. 1) A 10-Day Itinerary for an Active Vacation This itinerary combines cultural exploration, natural wonders, and relaxation in an imperial-era town. You would have ample time to fully explore Zhangjiajie, including Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon and the glass bridge, and Fenghuang Ancient Town. For an even more enriching experience, we could arrange city cycling tours or hands-on activities for groups or families based on your preferences. Nights 1–2: Begin Your Journey in Changsha Your journey would begin in the afternoon upon your arrival in Changsha Airport. You could immerse yourself in the local lifestyle by savoring Hunan snacks in Pozi Street and enjoying a relaxing cruise on the Xiangjiang River at night. Exploring the region's culture and history requires a full day. Start with a visit to the Hunan Museum, where you could see the world-famous, well-preserved Xin Zhui, also known as Lady Dai, a wet corpse from over 2,000 years ago. Then, immerse yourself in the scholarly atmosphere of ancient Chinese traditional education at Yuelu Academy, a thousand-year-old institution. Nights 3–5: Wulingyuan Scenic Area in Zhangjiajie Next, take a bullet train from Changsha to Zhangjiajie city, and take a cable car ride from the city center up Tianmen Mountain. Visit the highest natural water-eroded arch and, if weather permits, enjoy a stunning sea of clouds or a sunset. On the following day, explore Tianzi Mountain and Avatar Hallelujah Mountain. Although shuttle buses are available, visiting the attractions still requires a lot of walking. Then, head to Zhangjiajie Grand Canyon to experience the thrill of walking on the Zhangjiajie Glass Bridge and, for the adventurous, try bungee jumping. The next day, continue your tour with a visit to Golden Whip Stream and Yellow Stone Village. The meandering stream, exotic flowers, swimming fish, and melodious bird songs create a picturesque setting. The entire hike along Golden Whip Stream needs to be completed on foot, taking about 2–2½ hours, with no shuttle buses available. The path is wet so non-slip shoes are necessary. Alternatives are available. A Monkey in the Golden Whip Stream Then, take a shuttle bus to Yellow Stone Village, which is on a tall isolated pillar. To reach the top, we recommend taking a cable car ride to save time and energy while enjoying the scenic views without excessive fatigue. On the last day, visit Yellow Dragon Cave and Baofeng Lake. Yellow Dragon Cave features typical karst landscapes, where you could admire stone hills, pillars, stalactites, and stone gates. The cave's temperature is cooler than outside. Therefore, even in summer, take a jacket. Finally, take a boat ride on Baofeng Lake, surrounded by peaks that are reflected in the water, for a leisurely and relaxing experience. Night 6: Zhangjiajie City If you want to have some interactive activities for your family or group, we could arrange a cycling tour or a 1–1½-hour sand-painting activity in the city, where you could create a unique souvenir for yourself. If you prefer a more relaxed time in Fenghuang Ancient Town, you could take a bullet train ride there in the morning, which takes about 1 hour. Nights 7–8: Fenghuang Ancient Town Enjoy the town's relaxed atmosphere and wander along its cobblestone streets lined with wooden stilted buildings. Relax amongst colorful night views along the Tuojiang River to experience a tranquil evening. Night 9: Changsha Departure Return to Changsha from Fenghuang for convenient onward travel to other cities or your return flight to Singapore. 2) A 7-Day Itinerary: The Essence of Hunan Nightview of Fenghuang Ancient Town If your time is limited, this itinerary would allow you to explore Zhangjiajie's most iconic attractions, including Yellow Dragon Cave, Tianzi Mountain, Avatar Hallelujah Mountain, and Tianmen Mountain, and afterward visit Fenghuang Ancient Town, where you could enjoy a stunning sunset or spend a leisurely night at a local bar. Additionally, you would experience the rich historical and cultural heritage of Changsha. The visit to Changsha could be scheduled either before or after the tours of Zhangjiajie and Fenghuang Ancient Town depending on your preferences/schedule. The bullet-train transfer to Changsha from Zhangjiajie/Fenghuang takes about 2–2½ hours. • Nights 1–2: Changsha • Nights 3–5: Zhangjiajie • Night 6: Fenghuang Ancient Town 7-Day Hunan Discovery Tour Changsha-Zhangjiajie-Fenghuang Ancient Town 7-Day Hunan Discovery Tour Changsha-Zhangjiajie-Fenghuang Ancient Town 7-Day Hunan Discovery Tour Changsha-Zhangjiajie-Fenghuang Ancient Town How to Get to Changsha, Zhangjiajie, and Fenghuang from Singapore If you are traveling from Singapore, you could take a 5-hour flight to Changsha and then transfer to Zhangjiajie. This route would save you energy compared to transferring through other destinations, such as Kuala Lumpur, Shanghai, Nanjing, or Hong Kong, which would take more than 10 hours. From Zhangjiajie to Fenghuang Ancient Town, you could take a 1-hour bullet train ride. The journey from Fenghuang to Changsha takes about 2–2½ hours. If your schedule is flexible, the best time to visit Changsha, Zhangjiajie, and Fenghuang is from September to November when the temperature range averages from 62.6°F to 82.4°F (17°C to 28°C). The weather is comfortable and clearer in Zhangjiajie and Fenghuang, and there are fewer crowds compared to peak times. The second choice is from April to June, early in the rainy season. The scenery after it has rained is like a traditional Chinese painting, unlike with the heavier rains that occur in July and August when it is stormier. These destinations are very crowded, especially during the summer vacation (July and August), the Labor Day holiday (May 1st–3rd), and the National Day holiday (October 1st–7th). Try to book as early as possible if you happen to visit during these periods. If you cannot visit during the best time, it is advisable to allocate an extra day when planning your trip to Zhangjiajie. This extra day could help accommodate weather changes, allow for alternative activities, or provide time to wait for better weather. Costs for Visiting Changsha, Fenghuang, and Zhangjiajie The cost of a private tour in Changsha, Zhangjiajie, and Fenghuang is about $160–170 per person per day for a family (3–5 people), and about $200 per person per day for a couple. This includes domestic flights/train journeys from Changsha to Zhangjiajie, 4-star hotels, attractions, tour guides, and private transfers. Helping You Create a Zhangjiajie Itinerary We hope our suggestions help you to design your journey. If you have other ideas in mind, our private tours provide you with many options for balancing price and quality perfectly. You could obtain relatively high-quality services, experiences, and privacy within the most reasonable price range. Feel free to contact us if you need help planning and arranging a trip to Zhangjiajie and the surrounding cities.