ID: 5678dfeefcf52416
Title: How to Plan a Trip to Chaozhou and Shantou from Singapore
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/chaozhou-shantou/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

What attracts you to Chaoshan? Fine food, folk culture, or perhaps the distant memories of a homeland your ancestors once spoke of, across the sea? For me, it's the food and traditional Chaoshan-style houses, and I spent four days in Chaozhou and Shantou in early April 2025. Typically, Chaoshan area includes three main cities, Chaozhou (Teochew), Shantou (Swatow) and Jieyang, while the visiting mainly focus on Chaozhou and Shantou. If you're wondering how to plan your visit, I'm here to share some itinerary ideas based on my own experience. • How to Get to Chaoshan • What is the Best Time to Visit • How Long to Spend (itineraries) • Where to Stay • How Much Does It Cost How to Get to Chaoshan from Singapore Singapore to Chaozhou and Shantou You can take a direct flight to Chaoshan Jieyang International Airport from Singapore. But there is only one flight run by Scoot each day, and it's not available daily. • Singapore to Chaoshan: 14:25—18:30 • Chaoshan to Singapore: 19:30—23:25 You can take either a taxi or a bus from the airport, but I'd suggest taking a taxi. It's more convenient than the bus, no transfers, faster, and not much more expensive. Chaozhou and Shantou Transportation I recommend starting your trip in Chaozhou. It has more historical sites and requires more walking to visit. While Shantou is more laid-back, perfect for a food tour and leisurely sightseeing, making it an ideal spot to wind down at the end of your journey. If you book your trip with China Highlights, services like airport pickup, a private guide, private car, and bullet train tickets (business class preferred, first class as an alternative) are all included. If you're planning a roots-seeking tour, you can simply extend your itinerary by 1–2 days. Your driver and guide can accompany you to visit your ancestral villages as well. Maybe our 5-Day Roots-Seeking Journey to Chaoshan or 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour can give you some inspiration. If you book your trip with China Highlights, services like airport pickup, a private guide, private car, and bullet train tickets (business class preferred, first class as an alternative) are all included. If you're planning a roots-seeking tour, you can simply extend your itinerary by 1–2 days. Your driver and guide can accompany you to visit your ancestral villages as well. Maybe our 5-Day Roots-Seeking Journey to Chaoshan or 7-Day Chaoshan and Hakka Heritage Tour can give you some inspiration. When is the Best Time to Visit Chaoshan Chaoshan's climate is similar to Guangzhou's. You can visit any time, but October to November is best, as the weather is mild, and there's less rain, fewer crowds, and lower tour prices. Best Time to Visit Chaozhou and Shantou I visited in early April, with 2 cloudy days and 2 rainy days during my visit. It mostly drizzled, so it didn't really affect my visit a lot, except for the coastal views in Shantou, which weren't great. Chaoshan may be less known than Beijing or Shanghai, but it still gets crowded during holidays like the first week of May and October. The peak periods are during Chinese New Year and the Lantern Festival, when local folk events like Yingge Dance and God-wandering draw big crowds. Accordingly, you'll see large crowds, long queues, pricey hotels, and heavy traffic. Chaoshan may be less known than Beijing or Shanghai, but it still gets crowded during holidays like the first week of May and October. The peak periods are during Chinese New Year and the Lantern Festival, when local folk events like Yingge Dance and God-wandering draw big crowds. Accordingly, you'll see large crowds, long queues, pricey hotels, and heavy traffic. How Many Days Do I Need to Visit Chaoshan Typically, Chaozhou and Shantou each take around 1.5 days to explore key attractions. With an extra day for Nan'ao Island, a total of 4 days is enough. If you have more time, you can also explore nearby cities like Guangzhou, Foshan, Hong Kong, or Xiamen, around 7-8 days in total. 1. 6-Day Chaozhou and Shantou Essence Tour Maybe you can take a look at my 6-day itinerary for reference. I've visited Guangzhou and Shenzhen several times, but never Chaoshan or Xiamen. As they're nearby, I combined them into one itinerary. Day 1: Chaozhou arrival in the afternoon, Guangji Tower Gate, City Wall After settling into the hotel, you can stroll around Guangji Bridge, the most iconic landmark of Chaozhou. Starting from Guangji Gate is better. You could see Guangji Bridge here directly, and you'll find yourself close to Archway Street after entering the gate. It's the liveliest area in Chaozhou Ancient City, full of restaurants and local snacks, perfect for settling dinner. Memorial Archway Street I had the local specialty, Chaoshan beef hotpot, at a popular chain called Guantang Brothers. It tasted great, and the flavors were light and super fresh. However, the service was a bit slow, and I waited for half an hour. If you don't mind, you can go when there are fewer people. After dinner, taking a stroll is ideal. The night views of Guangji Tower and Archway Street are beautiful, or you can walk along the river to catch the light show at Guangji Bridge. Stroll around Guangji Bridge and the city wall Day 2: Hanwengong Temple, Guangji Bridge, Archway Street, Kaiyuan Temple, Tea House (congou tea and Teochw opera), Jilue Huang Ancestral Hall, Son-in-Law Xu's Mansion. This day's itinerary covers most of the highlights of Chaozhou. You can follow this route. It's the most convenient and efficient way without detour. The travel pace was not so rushed for a day trip. Most sites are located in and around the ancient city, and quite close to each other. Typically, each site takes 30 to 90 min to visit, and there are golf carts to transfer you between attractions. For me, I started around 9:30 am, and finished all the visiting around 5:30 pm. Enjoy a food tour around Archway Street for lunch Feel free to skip some attractions if you're not into them, but I think Guangji Bridge, Archway Street and Son-in-Law Xu's Mansion are must-visit. Visit Son-in-Law Xu's Mansion to see a traditional Teochew house For wheelchair users, it's best to skip Han Wen Gong Temple. Although it's perfect for a distant view of Guangji Bridge, there are many steps to climb. Or if you prefer a slower pace, I'd suggest setting aside an extra half-day to visit Kaiyuan Temple, Ji Lue Huang Ancestral Hall, and Son-in-Law Xu's Mansion the next morning. Ji Lue Huang Ancestral Hall is best for old carving arts Day 3: Chaozhou to Shantou, visited Former Residence of Mr. Chen Cihong, local ferry, Queshi Scenic Area, Shantou Small Park Former Residence of Mr. Chen Cihong is located between Chaozhou and Shantou, so it's ideal to visit along the way. I really loved its mix of retro Teochew and Western-style decor, and spent half a day here. Queshi Scenic Area and Shantou Small Park area are separated only by an inner bay, so you can visit them together in one afternoon. Taking a ferry is a good way to transfer between these two spots, but it's still a 10-15 minute walk from the pier to the entrance. If you don't want to walk, you can take a taxi across the sea bridge and get dropped off right at the scenic area. I took a local commuting ferry to and from Chairlift was available to reach the top of the hill, but it was rainy and misty when I went, so I only stayed for half an hour. If you're also visiting on a rainy day, skip it. The view was poor, and even though the open-air chairlift had a roof, your clothes might still get wet. Tip for ferry: If the weather was good, the 5:30 pm sightseeing ferry was perfect for catching the sunset over the sea. It was newer and more comfortable than the regular one, but also cost-effective. Tip for ferry: If the weather was good, the 5:30 pm sightseeing ferry was perfect for catching the sunset over the sea. It was newer and more comfortable than the regular one, but also cost-effective. Then I went to Shantou Small Park at dusk. The arcade-style streets there were great for photos, and the food was also diverse and nice to try. I had some licorice fruit, beef rice noodles (most recommended), and braised foods. Day 4: day trip to Nan'ao Island, explore Longyan South Road Food Street at night Nan'ao Island isn't very big. Based on my experience, it's more suitable for a day trip. Since there's not much nightlife on the island, it's more convenient to stay in Shantou without changing hotels. I started at 9:30 am, and returned to Shantou at 4:30 pm. Chartering a car was the best way to visit around the island. The driver showed me ten popular spots, staying maybe 10 to 30 minutes at each. It was a cloudy day when I went, so the sea looked greyish-green, and many of the views weren't as pretty as expected. The view is great on sunny days But actually, the sea I saw on a cloudy day Among the sights on Nan'ao Island, my favorites were the lighthouse, Qianjiang Bay Beach, and Rainbow Sea. You can snap some really beautiful photos here, especially on sunny days. In the evening, it's a great time to explore the local food streets. I went to Longyan South Road, the most popular food street, full of local snacks. It's convenient to get to as it's right in the city center, and there is a local market best for picking up some local specialties. The most lively time is between 8-10 pm, but remember to keep an eye out for electric scooters zooming around. I had some crispy taro, wampee juice, congee, and crystal rice cakes (locals called them "guo", or "kueh"), all tasted nice. Day 5: bullet train to Xiamen, Jimei Study Village, Shapowei Street, Zhongshan Road Pedestrian Street After arriving in Xiamen around noon, I recommend spending the afternoon at Jimei Study Village. The area is known for its beautiful coastal views and seaside buildings. Kah-kee Park and the Spirited Away-style coastal train are the two places most worth visiting. During the night, you can check out some food streets. I visited Shapowei Street and Zhongshan Road Pedestrian Street. But honestly, I wouldn't recommend either of them, as the food wasn't tasty and it was overpriced. However, Shapowei was still great for photos. Shapowei Art District Shapowei Art District vs. Zhongshan Road Actually, I found the streets around Xiamen University were best for good eats. Many students would come here for late-night eats, so it's more affordable and tasty. Day 6：Gulangyu Island day trip and departure at night Gulangyu Island is enough to visit in a day. The most recommended route was from Dongdu Pier to Sanqiutian Pier, and back the same way. There were two kinds of ferries, boutique or regular, both included a round-trip ticket. Boutique Ferry vs. Regular Ferry: Boutique has air-con, soft seats, and glass windows. Regular doesn't, with hard seats and open railings. But the return trip may not be the same kind of ferry. Like me, I booked a boutique ferry to but got a regular one back. You could book a ticket package to visit all the attractions without appointments. But there's no car on the island, and the shuttle bus only runs between piers and Shuzhuang Garden. Many of the sights were only accessible on foot, so exploring the island meant a lot of walking. My Gulangyu trip was lucky as it was a sunny day, so I caught beautiful sea views and a sunset. The food on the island was also great and cost-effective, and my favorite one was the ginger duck. Enjoying a pipe organ performance is highly recommended You can capture a sunset beside Shuzhuang Garden Tips from my travel experience： Based on my trip experience, if you also plan to visit these three cities, I'd recommend starting with Xiamen. Xiamen requires more walking, while Chaozhou and Shantou are more relaxed, with a lot more food options too. You can skip Nan'ao Island, as Xiamen already has more sea views. You could replace that day with a visit to the Tulou near Xiamen. I skipped them this time since I've been before, but they're definitely worth spending a day or two exploring if you haven't. Apart from Xiamen, Guangzhou (modern China and Chimelong Safari Park) and Hong Kong (Disneyland) are also popular destinations to combine with Chaozhou and Shantou. Feel free to contact China Highlights if you have any needs, and we can help you plan a private itinerary. Where to Stay in Chaozhou or Shantou In Chaozhou, stay in the ancient city. You can find more boutique hotels there, and easy for visiting, dining, shopping, and entertainment. If you want a river-view room, the Crowne Plaza Hotel, located opposite, is best to enjoy the view of the river, the ancient city, and the Guangji Bridge. In Shantou, stay around MIXC, the most prosperous area in this city, with more high-end hotel options. It's also convenient for shopping and dining, and near the food streets. For cost-effective hotels, stay near Small Park. It also offers lots of food options and is close to more attractions. We typically arrange 4 or 5-star hotels, among the best in the area, including breakfast. If you prefer to choose your own hotel, we can assist with bookings and ensure our drivers safely take you there. How Much Does the Trip Cost The daily budget would be about 200-300 USD per person, including private transfers, meals, attraction fees, guide, hotels, domestic transfer etc. But tips are not included. You can check out our 3-Day Chaozhou and Shantou Tour for price reference. The budget would vary depending on where, when, how many people, how many days, the hotel class, and other requirements you may have. Hotel prices during the Chinese New Year in Chaoshan can be ridiculously high (multiplied several times). Unless you're specifically visiting for traditional festivities like Yingge dance or lion dances, it's best to avoid this peak period. Travel Chaozhou and Shantou with China Highlights • 8-Day Guangzhou and Chaoshan Highlights Tour