ID: 7187b4e3098cec21
Title: The Top 10 Hong Kong Areas to Stay In + Best Hotels
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/hong-kong/top-areas-to-stay-in-hong-kong.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

With no visa requirement, no language barrier, and with a fusion of Western and Eastern cultures, Hong Kong is an ideal place to stay for vacations. Hong Kong consists of three sections: Hong Kong Island, Kowloon, and the New Territories, which can be furthered divided into 18 districts. Here, we will give you some accommodation suggestions by listing the top areas to stay in Hong Kong, covering where to stay for first-time travelers, the best area to stay for young people, the best place to stay for culture, and where to stay in Hong Kong on a budget. 1. Tsim Sha Tsui - Best for First-Time Travelers Tsim Sha Tsui is one of the best areas to stay in Hong Kong, especially for first-time travelers. Tsim Sha Tsui is located at the south end of Kowloon, on the waterfront of Victoria Harbour. The excellent location means this area has lots of hotels, among which are the world's top hotels. As you might expect, even ordinary hotels are not cheap in Tsim Sha Tsui. The dense transportation network is also a big advantage. You can get directly from Luohu Port in Shenzhen to Tsim Sha Tsui via the subway. It is also convenient to head to the airport and Causeway Bay. You can easily go to Central District and Wan Chai by taking a ferry at Star Ferry Pier. For sightseeing and shopping, Tsim Sha Tsui will never let you down. It has the Avenue of Stars, Victoria Harbour, the Hong Kong Space Museum, the Hong Kong Museum of Art, Kowloon Park, and much more. The most popular shopping malls in this area are Harbour City and DFS. Harbour City is the biggest shopping mall in Hong Kong. You can find various brands in it. Recommended hotels: The Royal Garden (5-star), InterContinental Hong Kong (5-star), Harbour Plaza Metropolis (4-star), Royal Pacific Hotel And Towers (4-star), Butterfly on Prat Boutique Hotel (4-star), Shamrock Hotel (3-star) 2. Causeway Bay - Best for Young People Located in the north of Hong Kong Island, Causeway Bay is a very famous tourist area. Different from Tsim Sha Tsui, it is not only a shopping paradise but is also a great place for food and nightlife. Among Hong Kong's shopping circles, Causeway Bay is one of the most popular places for locals to visit. There are department stores, fashion stores, and cheap stalls, among which the most popular are Times Square and SOGO department store. If you are tired from shopping, there are all kinds of specialty foods waiting for you to try them, and you'll find them anywhere from high-end restaurants to casual teahouses. Foodies can start a food adventure around Times Square. Make sure you don't miss Tang Lung Street, Jardine's Bazaar, Lockhart Road, and Lee Garden Road. In the evening, the colorful nightlife begins. You can find all kinds of bars in Yiu Wa Street, which is adjacent to Times Square and opposite Lee Gardens shopping mall and Hoi Ping Road. Recommended hotels: Lanson Place Hotel, Hong Kong (5-star), Metropark Hotel Causeway Bay Hong Kong (4-star), Holiday Inn Express Hong Kong Causeway Bay (3-star) 3. Wan Chai - Best for Business Plans Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre Wan Chai is located on the north shore of Hong Kong Island. This area is the main commercial part of Hong Kong. Wan Chai has the famous Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, which lies in the vicinity of the main government offices. Hotels in Wan Chai are in high demand during the exhibition periods every year. Wan Chai Ferry Pier and the Golden Bauhinia Square are situated in this area. It is just one stop to get from Wan Chai to Central and to Causeway Bay via the MTR. Even though it is close to Central, the accommodation options in Wan Chai are cheaper and more affordable. Recommended hotels: Dorsett Wanchai Hong Kong (4-star), Empire Hotel Hong Kong ∙ Wan Chai (4-star), Kew Green Hotel Wanchai Hong Kong (4-star), Mingle Place By The Park (3-star) 4. Jordan Road - Best for Shopaholics The distance from Jordan to Tsim Sha Tsui is regarded as "a golden mile for shopping". All kinds of stores line the street, which will dazzle you. You won't get tired at all. It is a 15-minute walk to Tsim Sha Tsui but you can find many hotels that are cheaper than those in that area. Jordan is close to Yau Ma Tei, being within walking distance. Yau Ma Tei is a food paradise. All kinds of Hong Kong specialties are concentrated there. Local seafood restaurants and noodle restaurants can be found in Parkes Street, and Hong Kong-style restaurants (cha chaan teng) are located in Woosung Street. If you want to eat fruit, you can go to Reclamation Street. Recommended hotels: Eaton HK (4-star), Evergreen Hotel (Hong Kong) (3-star) 5. Central and Admiralty - Best for Views Located in the north of Hong Kong Island, Central is the political and commercial center of Hong Kong. Many banks, multinational financial institutions, and foreign consulates are located there. You can enjoy the night view of Victoria Harbour to the north, see Victoria Peak to the south, and head to Tsim Sha Tsui to the south by ferry. Such a fantastic location means that lots of high-end hotels are there. It is also the main area where world leaders stay when they are visiting Hong Kong. Within 30 minutes, you can go to Tsim Sha Tsui, Mong Kok, Causeway Bay, Wan Chai, and the airport from Central. Lan Kwai Fong – the famous nightlife spot in Hong Kong – is also situated there. Recommended hotels: Mandarin Oriental, Hong Kong (5-star), Island Shangri-La, Hong Kong (5-star), Lan Kwai Fong Hotel @ Kau U Fong (4-star) 6. Lantau Island - Best for Families Lantau Island is Hong Kong's biggest island, and there are great places for tourists such as Hong Kong International Airport, Disneyland Hong Kong, good sized hiking peaks and nature parks, villages and small towns for cultural experiences, resorts, hotels, and other places. Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) is located off the north coast of Lantau Island. It is very convenient for international travelers wanting to visit Lantau Island. Recommended hotel: Disney's Hollywood Hotel (5-star) 7. Mong Kok - Best Place to Stay for Culture Mong Kok is not as luxurious as Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, but it is a place where you can feel the spirit of Hong Kong. Consisting of traditional buildings as well as interesting and colorful markets that deal in a range of goods, such as jade, flowers, traditional clothing, and fabric, it gives you a glimpse into Hong Kong's past. Ladies' Market, Fa Yuen Street, and Tung Choi Street are good choices. You can find many affordable hotels in this area. Recommended hotels: Royal Plaza Hotel (5-star), Stanford Hotel Hong Kong (4-star), Sunny Day Hotel Mong Kok (3-star) 8. North Point, Tin Hau - Best for Budget Plans If you don't use Tsim Sha Tsui as your shopping destination, then this area can be a good choice. You can view the beautiful Victoria Harbour from there. The best place to stay in this area is near to Tin Hau Station, which is next to Victoria Park. It is a 15-minute walk to Causeway Bay. Recommended hotels: Harbour Plaza North Point (4-star), ibis Hong Kong North Point (3-star) 9. Lamma Island - Best for People Who Prefer Quiet Environment Lamma Island is the third largest of the islands of Hong Kong which is full of natural feel. It seems like another world, though it is just a little island (7 kilometers long). It is easy to get to because of two ferry ports on the island, on the northwest and southeast, ferry tourists back and forth from Central piers and Aberdeen. Small mountains and sandy beaches make it ideal for holidays. Compared with the hotels in urban center of Hong Kong, Lamma Island has few high star-level hotels. Recommended hotels: Concerto Inn (3-star) 10. Beach Areas - Best for Backpackers Hong Kong has many beautiful beaches. If you like camping or you don't want to pay much on accommodation, you can rent a tent and camp on the beach. Look at the stars, have a barbecue, listen to the waves, appreciate the sunrise by the sea, etc. It is so exciting! The high travel season in Hong Kong is from September to March. April is the peak season for exhibitions. August, September, Christmas, and New Year are the best times for shopping in Hong Kong. So, in these months, Hong Kong's hotel prices will increase and be in high demand. Make sure you book a hotel in advance if you travel in these periods. May and June are the best months for hotel discounts in Hong Kong. Also, the period after the Spring Festival to February is a slow season for Hong Kong tourism so the hotel prices will drop. Let Us Optimize Your Hong Kong Tour Explore Hong Kong with us! Let us tailor-make your unique Hong Kong tour and help you find a satisfying hotel. Our professional travel adviser will make a nice tour plan according to your requirements and interests. See our popular Hong Kong tours: • 4-Day Hong Kong Family Tour - have fun in Hong Kong Disneyland and Hong Kong Island. • 13-Day Private Tour - discover a colorful China, including Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Guilin, and Hong Kong.