ID: 10afabec9973318b
Title: Plan Your Guilin Trip 2026: Best Attractions & Itinerary
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/guilin/article-guilin-tour-planner.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-06-10T00:00:00
================================================================================

Guilin is a small scenic city located in the southern part of China, boasting some of the most beautiful karst landscapes in the world, as well as idyllic countryside and rural life. Our travel experts here in Guilin share their tips on how to plan a Guilin trip. It should be a perfect tour if you are willing to spend a little time planning and allow an expert to help you. • Top Things to Do • How Long to Stay • Best Time to Visit • How to Get to and Get Around Guilin • Where to Stay Top Things to Do in Guilin 1. Indulge in the Scenic Li River by Cruising, Bamboo Rafting, or Hiking Take a Li River Cruise to Enjoy the View Leisurely, Guilin, China The Li River is the essence of Guilin's landscape and is included in almost all the Guilin tour itineraries. Verdant karst mountains, clear water, amazing caves, and remarkable rocks are the four features of the river. There are three main ways to visit the Li River: • Take a relaxing 4-hour trip from Guilin to Yangshuo on a Li River cruise, and admire the views from a cabin or on deck. • Get up close and personal with the Li River on a motorized bamboo raft with seats and a canopy for an hour, though the motor could be a bit noisy. • Go on a 3-4 hour hike along the Li River, which is particularly popular among families with teenagers. 2. Discover a Pristine Limestone Cave With Your Family Discover an Underground Cave in Yangshuo County, Guilin, China With the help of your caving guide, you will explore an amazing limestone cave that few have visited, using a professional rope system. Get ready for a private journey to an amazing underground world. You could tell the age of the cave by the magnificent stalactites and standing stalagmites, and how the water has dissolved the rocks for millions of years. Light up your way with your torch in this dark cave, and listen to the echo of dripping water, which sounds like it is from the ancient past. You may be interested in: 5-Day Dynamic Guilin and Yangshuo Tour (Most Recommended for a Family Summer Tour) 3. Escape to the Peaceful Countryside in Yangshuo Bamboo Rafting on Yulong River in Yangshuo County Not only does Yangshuo boast stunning countryside scenery, but it is also a heaven for lovers of outdoor activities. Find your favourite way to immerse yourself in nature, such as cycling, motorbiking, and kayaking. Let us know your specific needs, and see what we can do for you. 4. Challenging Yourself with Ferrata and Zip-Lining in Yangshuo Challenging Yourself with Ferrata in Yangshuo County, Guilin, China For active families, Ferrata is one of the best ways to set free your adventurous souls and add some adrenaline. Experience the strange rocks in Guilin with your own hands, and marvel at the idyllic views, shouting out like Tarzan while zip-lining. 5. Walking On the Rim Road of the Longji Rice Terraces Hiking Around the Longji Rice Terraces in Longsheng County, Guilin, China Longji's terraced fields have both spectacular scenery and ethnic culture. Houses clustered among the cultivated terraces make a beautiful mountainside picture. Don't worry if you are tired of walking, we could take a ropeway straight up to those top-view spots. You could also visit a local family and learn to make an authentic dish, bamboo rice, then savor the fruits of your labor. 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside 5-Day Guilin Family TourEndless Fun in the Countryside How Long to Stay for a Guilin Trip: 4–7 Days Recommended We believe an enjoyable travel experience is not about hurrying from one place to another to cram in the sights. Including the arrival and departure days, you will need at least 4 days to experience Guilin's highlights with a tight schedule. • Day 1: Guilin arrival • Day 2: A day tour to the Longji Rice Terraces • Day 3: The Li River cruise from Guilin to Yangshuo • Day 4: Sightseeing in Yangshuo, and departure Less time means you could only take a hurried look around, or make trade-offs in the main attractions. However, our Guilin tours range from 1 day to 7 days to suit all your needs. For more suggestions, see How Long to Spend in Guilin. If you want to explore deeper into Guilin and its surrounding areas, you could refer to our 6-Day Guilin, Longsheng & Yangshuo Relaxation. Our tours are typically private and personalized, and we can create unique experiences tailored to your needs. Contact us now to plan your itinerary based on your travel time, interests, and requirements. The Best Time to Visit Guilin The Shelter Bridge in Yangshuo County, Guilin, China Guilin could be visited all year round, but the scenery varies according to the seasons. You could admire the misty karst landscape in spring, have fun in sunny and green summer with water activities, pick up golden ginkgo leaves in cool autumn, and enjoy the quiet off-season in winter. The best time, also the popular time, to visit Guilin weather-wise is from April to October, when it has pleasant days, abundant rainfalls, and misty mornings, which make up the charming scenery. The off-season is from November to March, which could be a good time for budget travelers to enjoy a quieter experience. Tips to Avoid Crowds During the Busy Times As Guilin is very popular with both foreign and Chinese travelers, you should expect to experience crowding at peak times. • Chinese Qingming Festival (April 4–6) • International Labor Day (May 1–5) • Chinese Summer holiday (July and August) • Chinese Mid-Autumn festival (about 3 days in September/October) • National holiday (October 1–7) The exact dates may vary every year. However, it is difficult, or impossible, to avoid crowds during these periods if you don't have help from a local travel expert who knows the travel tricks. Otherwise, you may face a frustrating experience, like having to wait for 3 hours to board a Yulong River bamboo raft, which is quite likely to happen. 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery The Landscape in Painting 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery The Landscape in Painting 4-Day Guilin Scenic and Ethnic Discovery The Landscape in Painting Guilin is easily accessible by air and rail. • Flying: For distant cities like Beijing, Xi'an, and Shanghai, flying is more convenient and time-saving. You would land at the only airport in Guilin, Guilin Liangjiang International Airport, and then it's about a 1-hour drive to the city center. • Rail: For nearby regions, high-speed trains are a great option to save money. Guilin has three railway stations with direct connections to major cities such as Changsha, Zhangjiajie, Kunming, Chengdu, Guiyang, and Hong Kong. Private transfers can greatly improve your travel experience To explore Guilin, we highly recommend using private transfers. Though the most enjoyable way to travel from Guilin to Yangshuo is taking a Li River Cruise, private transfers are the most convenient and efficient way to see the sights. Guilin has no subways, and the main attractions are relatively scattered. To ensure your smooth travel plan, private transfers help you find the shortest routes, saving valuable time. Though buses and coaches are cheaper, they have long intervals and can delay your sightseeing, leading to a less enjoyable experience. Where to Stay in Guilin To take advantage of Guilin's convenient transportation, stunning karst landscape, and make the most of your free time, you are most likely to stay in a hotel in one of the following areas: Hotels in the Downtown Area: Top Recommendation King Size Bed Room in Lijiang Waterfall Hotel, Guilin • Recommendations: - Lijiang Waterfall Hotel: Known for its spectacular artificial waterfall. - The Sheraton: Offers a luxurious stay with stunning city views. - Atour Hotel: Modern and budget-friendly. The downtown area boasts excellent transportation links. You could reach Guilin's three high-speed rail stations or the airport within two hours. This bustling business district is also a scenic spot. Enjoy a leisurely walk to see the beautiful "two rivers and four lakes," sample authentic Guilin snacks, and experience the vibrant nightlife. However, due to the area's lively nightlife, if you are a light sleeper, consider booking a high-floor, quiet room or staying in a quieter area. Hotels Along the Li River Guilin Shangri-La Hotel • Recommendations: - Guilin Shangri-La Hotel: Luxurious riverside stay. - The White House: Charming boutique hotel. - Grand Bravo Guilin: Mid-range with scenic views. Besides staying in the downtown area, you could also choose a hotel along the Li River that offers stunning views right from your window. It could be quieter than downtown, and nearby local residential areas provide more affordable and authentic dining options. But please note that the road conditions might not be as smooth as downtown, and the river breeze can make the area feel more humid, especially during the rainy season from May to August. If you are not interested in staying in Guilin City and decide to go straight to Yangshuo County, read more about Where to Stay in Yangshuo Discover Guilin with China Highlights Planning a great trip to Guilin is time-consuming and difficult, especially before you know the area well. Many tourists ask for exclusive experiences yet find out they're on a second-rate Li River cruise among large Chinese tourist groups. You will be in good hands with our native Guilin tour guides, who have explored every corner of the city and its surrounding rural areas. Please let us know your interests and needs. One of our travel experts will give you insider recommendations and tailor-make your unique Guilin tour.