ID: 266093ed75ebc772
Title: Ocean Park - Introduction, Guide and Tour Plan
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/hong-kong/attraction/ocean-park.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Ocean Park Hong Kong is one of Hong Kong's great visitor attractions, but it can get highly crowded, lines can get long, and it is a large, complex and growing park with many facilities. It can be confusing to navigate. We at China Highlights want you to enjoy your trip, so we've put together some Ocean Park touring information, tips, and suggestions to help you have a great memorable day in Hong Kong's most popular theme park. In our tour plan below, we provide a recommended tour plan of Ocean Park Hong Kong's best features as well as details about the highlights in the parks 8 theme zones and important travel and visiting information. It is a lot of things packed into about a square kilometer (1/3 of a square mile) of hill and coast on the southern side of Hong Kong Island, conveniently close to Central. It has modern world-class thrill rides, state of the art aquariums, and zoo areas for both land and aquatic animals. It is a place for all ages to enjoy with shows, entertainment, souvenir shops, and educational exhibits in a scenic parkland and ocean setting. Special non-businessy feel: Unlike other theme parks, this park is not a for profit business. It is a public service, and construction was funded by donations by the Hong Kong Jockey Club. So the park is much more orientated to education and wildlife conservation research, and they take better care of the animals. For the size and the quality, you'll find the prices are lower. What are Ocean Park's Highlights? For your visit, we recommend seeing these highlights and doing these things as priorities in this order starting when the park opens. These are the things special and excellent and that really stand out from similar parks. • Panda habitat at Giant Panda Adventure at the Waterfront • The Grand Aquarium that has the world's largest aquarium dome also at the Waterfront Section • Your choice of the 4 roller coasters on the Summit Section • The Sea Jellies (huge jellyfish aquarium) on the Summit • Polar Adventure on the Summit that is special for the quality and since you won't usually find such arctic and Antarctic animals in zoos • The Tram from the Summit for excellent sightseeing in the afternoon before the lines form before closing Our Suggested Ocean Park Day Tour Plan Here we detail some tips and suggestions for having an optimal one-day Ocean Park tour. Get there early and when it isn't busy: The Chinese crowds arrive later in the morning. So try to be there before the park opens at 10 and definitely avoid the busy holidays and weekends. Try to purchase your tickets directly online or through agents before you go. Transport: For public transport, we recommend taking the MTR to Ocean Park Station. The transfer station for the Tsuen Wan Line (through Tsim Sha Tsui) and the Island Line (from Central Station) is Admiralty Station. Simply go 1 stop in about 20 minutes. However taxis from Central are relatively quick and inexpensive. See the Transport information below. China Highlights' agents can help with purchases and private transport. Get an Octopus card: Hong Kong is fairly unique in the world because you can purchase a card that you can swipe to pay for MTR and bus fares, and it can also be used to pay for many other things such as purchases at supermarkets, convenience stores, and restaurants. The card allows people to travel without standing in line to buy tickets. Cardholders simply swipe their cards and their fares are deducted electronically. You can buy these at the MTR station ticket windows and then use them for more convenience to pay for things in the park. No ID is required to buy one, and you can add money as you wish and return the card to a station window for some money back. App: Get the app for your phone if you want since WIFI is free. Morning Tour Route - Animals Wet and Dry A panda in Ocean Park Go to the best first: Go to the Waterfront Section first and enjoy the Panda Adventure and the other Asian Animals including the rare species. Then go to the Aqua City Zone and visit the Grand Aquarium. Optional things to see are the Australian animals and the carp and goldfish in the same zone. Have lunch: By this time, you might want to rest and have lunch. We recommend for prices and also for children (though the food is fine for everyone) Panda Café in the Amazing Asian Animals area. Afternoon Tour Route - Head for the Summit Then go up to the Summit Section for the thrill rides and the other five zones. We recommend that you take the train up since by this time, the tram will be crowded. The train can handle about 5,000 riders an hour. It is scenic too. See the Sea Jelly Spectacular and/or Polar Adventure Then choose one of the roller coasters and rides you like. Doing more than one big ride will take up more time. If you have time, see the sea mammal perform in Sea World. Then take the tram down for a very scenic afternoon view. Try to go down it before the lines get long for the tram before closing. Get down before closing: If you started in the morning, by this time, after all the animals and rides, you might be tired and getting down earlier instead of having a hassle with busy crowds at closing makes sense. What Is the Layout of Ocean Park Hong Kong? Ocean Park is divided into the Waterfront section and the Summit section. The two parts are connected by the Ocean Express and a cable car. The 3 in the Waterfront Section are: Amazing Asian Animals, Aqua City, and Whiskers Harbour. The 5 in the Summit Section are: Marine World, Thrill Mountain, Adventure Land, Polar Adventure, and Rainforest. Each zone has a diverse selection of rides, animal exhibits, and shows. We have listed some highlights below. The 3 Zones in the Waterfront Section • Adventures in Australia: Meet Australian animals such as fuzzy koalas, hopping red-necked wallabies, and laughing kookaburras. • The Grand Aquarium: Explore the myriad forms of aquatic life including sea cucumbers and starfish and view coral reefs at the spectacular Reef Tunnel. • Sea Life Carousel: Watch fantastical renditions of marine animals. You may have the chance to ride your favorite sea horse, goldfish, dolphin, or shark. Amazing Asian Animals A panda in Ocean Park • Giant Panda Adventure: Have a close look at rare giant pandas, red pandas, and Chinese giant salamanders. If you are interested, you can take part in an Honorary Panda Keeper Program. You will have a chance to step inside the panda enclosure, learn how to prepare the pandas' toys and meals, and take pictures with pandas through a glass door. Contact us for more detailed information. See more China panda tours in the Chinese mainland. • Panda Village: Don't expect to meet pandas; you will encounter Asian small-clawed otters and birdlife in a woodland setting. • Goldfish Treasures: View hundreds of shimmering goldfish and carp and learn about the importance of the goldfish and carp in Chinese culture. • Balloons Up-Up-And-Away: Drift into the sky on the fantastic ride that combines the whimsical charm of hot air balloons and a Ferris wheel. • Merry-Go-Round: It is a classic children's merry-go-round with gilded fairy-tale horses. • Whiskers Harbour Playground: Have some fun with children's classic outdoor toys like swings, slides, tunnels, and jungle gyms. The 5 Zones in the Summit Section A dolphin show in Ocean Park • Ocean Theatre: Watch lively shows of dolphins and sea lions doing stunts and learn something about the habitats of these marine mammals. • Sea Jelly Spectacular: Interact with 1,000 beautiful sea jellyfish set against stunning music and multimedia displays. • Ocean Park Tower: View extraordinary vistas of the South China Sea from a 360º gently rotating viewing room that is located 72 meters above the ground. • Hair Raiser: It hurtles, plunges, loops, dangles, and suspends you high above the South China Sea. • The Flash: It whisks you 22 meters into the air and spins you around so fast that you might see stars. • Whirly Bird: Take a pleasant spin that captures the magic of flying in vintage airplanes, and soar over 30 meters into the air. Ocean Park in Hong Kong • Mine Train: It is the craziest roller coaster ride in the park. Perched on the edge of a cliff, it will hurtle you over one crazy peak to the next. • Raging River: Take a log boat to meet narrow ravines, snaking slopes, and chilling hairpin turns, and plunge into the mist below at over 58 kilometers per hour. • Arctic Blast: Ride into a snowscape-themed wonderland on a sleigh and take photos against the breathtaking polar backdrop. • North Pole Encounter: Meet Pacific walruses and spotted seals as well as other animals from the North Pole including northern sea lions and snowy owls. • South Pole Spectacular: Meet the cute and lovable penguins, which come from the Earth's southernmost tip. • The Rapids: Take a raft to get through the jungle, and explore in darkened zones, patches of blinding sun, and undulating terrain. • Expedition Trail: Walk into the heart of the rain forest and spot some of the world's most striking tropical species, such as toco toucans and red-eyed tree frogs. There are some interesting shows in different theaters including the Amazing Bird Theatre, Ocean Theatre, Symbio!, and Whiskers Theatre. Travel Tips and Essentials for Planning a Trip The Best Time for a Visit October and November are good months for a visit to Ocean Park. It is usually warm and dry in Hong Kong. December's weather is usually sunny and dry too. You are recommended to avoid China's National Day (October 1st to 7th) when a large number of tourists go there from Chinese mainland. Hours and Ticket Prices The park is open from 10am to 6pm. Prices change almost annually. • Adult (aged 12 or above): HK$ 438 • Child (aged 3–11): HK$ 219 • Children under 3 years old and local senior aged 65 years old or above: free Transportation - How to Get to Ocean Park Location: It is near Wong Chuk Hang in Hong Kong Island's Southern District. It is on the other side of Victoria Peak from the main Hong Kong city urban area. Mass Transit Railway (MTR): You can take the South Island Line to get to Ocean Park Station. It takes about 14 minutes to get from Admiralty Station to the Hong Kong Ocean Park including a 6 minute walk. Public bus: Passengers may use any of the Aberdeen Tunnel bus routes and walk to the park from the Aberdeen Tunnel Toll Plaza bus stop. Taxi: From Central, taxis go to Ocean Park in about 9 to 12 minutes and prices start at about 13 USD How to Get Around Ocean Park - Ocean Express, Cable Car Internal transport includes a tram and internal park rail ferry people for sighting and transportation to marine park. Between the Summit and the Waterfront sections, you can take the Ocean Express rail system or the cable car. The cable car gives you good views of the ocean and surrounding area, and the Ocean Express has interesting and exciting underwater views. You can't walk between these areas. • Hong Kong Disneyland: a place filled with beauty, excitement, and Disney characters. • Lantau Island: an island of parks, tourist sites, villages, mountain paths, and natural areas to enjoy. • Repulse Bay: with clean water and a white sand beach, it is an ideal place for relaxation. Tour Hong Kong with China Highlights Hong Kong is a great city to enjoy with your children. Ocean Park is a good place to visit with your children. Please feel free to contact us if you want to include the park in your Hong Kong tour. We will be very glad to design a tour that combines the park and other highlights in Hong Kong. Related Ocean Parks and Aquariums in China • China's Top 5 Most Popular Aquariums and Ocean Worlds