ID: 6e6e7359b749bbc0
Title: Li River Cruise Ticket  and Optional Transfer Service
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/guilin/li-river-cruise-ticket-and-transfer.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Guilin is reputed as being one of the world's most beautiful places with its karst landscapes, clean rivers, idyllic countryside,etc. "East or west, Guilin's scenery is best", while Yangshuo's scenery is the best of the best! The key, however, is finding the best way to see all the beautiful landscapes. Undoubtedly, taking a cruise on the Li River is the most relaxing and exhaustive way to enjoy the karst landscape. Spending a leisure day cruising down the picturesque Li River from Guilin to Yangshuo. Upon arrival in Yangshuo in the afternoon, you'll have time to explore the bustling local market and West Street on your own. Tour Highlights Admire all the highlights of the Li River during the 4-hour cruise trip. Slow down, having a relax cruise tour to feel the tranquility of Li River after your tight journey. Learning Guilin local interesting culture when cruising on the river. Optional hotel pickup and transfer service, worry-free and be on time for your cruise trip. The Design of the Day Trip Saving your time for ticket booking, and deliver the ticket to you for free with no language barries. Optional professional pick-up and drop-off service, no more worries about the complicated traffic. No shopping, no tricks, no queueing to endure, free to choose what you want. Trippest Guilin Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip We will deliver tickets to you or ask the hotel staff to pass the ticket to you if you're not in hotel the night before the tour (without transfer service). Or you'll be informed the exact pickup time via email or hotel message the night before tour (With transfer service). If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Note: Please enter the name and address of your hotel information in Guilin, passport information and contact details at the time of your booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 AM –8:50 AMTransfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier The cruise usually departs at 9 am or 9:30 am, and the driver will pick you up from your hotel at around 8 am. ( If you have booked the pier transfer service) The driver will hold a sign of your name wait at your hotel lobby. Then transfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier, it will take about 50 minutes on the way. The driver will help you to get cruise tickets and lead you to foreigner access at Mopanshan Pier for boarding. Or you can take a taxi to Mopanshan pier by yourself. ( If you haven't book the pier transfer service) Show the taxi driver Chinese: "您好师傅，请送我到磨盘山码头." You need to get to the wharf at least 30 minutes before departure to leave enough time for passport inspection. Professional driver and our vehicle Cruises at the pier Details about Your Transport: The free hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you may pay the extra fee. Please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. 9:30 AM – 1:30 PMEnjoy The Beauty of Li River On The Boat Hailed as having the largest and most beautiful karst landscape, Li River meanders for about 102 miles, boasting incomparable scenes of lofty green peaks on both of its banks.The most essential part is about 52-mile (83-kilometer) from Guilin to Yangshuo which the cruise pass by. In fact, the best section of this part is between Yangdi Village and Xingping Town. Best part of Li River 3-star cruise interior Good to know: Since the lunch on the boat is a Chinese simple meal, many customers feedback for lunch is bad. It is recommended to bring some snacks by yourself. The lunch fee is not included in cruise ticket. On the deck The hills on both sides of the river, with their eclectic shapes are truly favors from nature, and most of them are named after their extraordinary appearance. Just let your imagination fly! You will see the Elephant Trunk Hill, vividly resembling a giant elephant drinking water, Solitary Beauty Peak like a lonely goddess. The most magnificant one is Nine-Horse Fresco Hill, you can count how many horses on the "giant mural". Nine-Horse Fresco Hill Spiral Shell Hill The most beautiful reflection can be seen on the Yellow Cloth Shoal, the scene printed on the note CNY 20. Many travelers come to Li River for this part due to the viewing on Chinese RMB. A large beige flagstone under the water surface looks like a piece of yellow cloth laid flat on the riverbed, that's why called Yellow Cloth Shoal. When the weather is fine, the reflection is so clear that you can hardly distinguish it from the real hill. Landscape on Note CNY 20 Customers at the front of Yellow Cloth Shoal 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM Visit Yangshuo Upon arrival at Yangshuo Longtoushan disembarkation pier, the cruising tour goes to an end. After that, you can go Yangshuo downtown to enjoy roughly 3 hours of free time to stroll around the local market and bustling West Street, commonly referred to as a 'Global Village.' If you prefer to stay in Yangshuo, please contact your hotel in Yangshuo for clear directions to your accommodation in advance. Most of Yangshuo hotels can provide pickup service. If you book the option "Ticket and Round-way Transfer", the driver will await you at Green Lotus Hotel Yangshuo at 5pm, which is closed to West Street, with holding your name sign, you will be dropped off at your hotel in Guilin. Customers at West Street Bustling West Street at night Share Your Experience: We welcome you to share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin and Yangshuo. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Packages and Pricing 3-Star Cruise Adult Child Infant Cruise Ticket US$ 40 p/p US$ 22 p/p free Ticket + One-way transfer（Average price） US$ 56 p/p US$ 39 p/p free Ticket + Round-way tranfer（Average price） US$ 86 p/p US$ 69 p/p free 4-Star Cruise Adult Child Infant Cruise Ticket US$ 65 p/p US$ 40 p/p free Ticket + One-way transfer（Average price） US$ 80 p/p US$ 56 p/p free Ticket + Round-way tranfer（Average price） US$ 110 p/p US$ 86 p/p free Important Notes: Adult: above age 14 yrs old and height over 150cm, Child: age 6-14 yrs old and height 120-149cm, Infant: under age 6 yrs old and height under 119cm. Due to the private transfer, the price varies according to the number of people. The actual price is subject to the final checkout price. Each adult can bring one free child under 119cm with no seat, more than one child will be charged as a child ticket. Children from 120cm to 149cm will charege as child's ticket with seat, and children over 150cm will charge as adult tickets. Private transfer with no other participants. Price Include: 3-star Li River boat ticket with English explaining. Round-way transfer: Hotel to Pier, Yangshuo to Hotel in Guilin (Optional). One-way transfer from Hotel to Mopanshan Pier (Optional). Price Exclude: Lunch. English-speaking tour guide service. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com Guilin is reputed as being one of the world's most beautiful places with its karst landscapes, clean rivers, idyllic countryside,etc. "East or west, Guilin's scenery is best", while Yangshuo's scenery is the best of the best! The key, however, is finding the best way to see all the beautiful landscapes. Undoubtedly, taking a cruise on the Li River is the most relaxing and exhaustive way to enjoy the karst landscape. Spending a leisure day cruising down the picturesque Li River from Guilin to Yangshuo. Upon arrival in Yangshuo in the afternoon, you'll have time to explore the bustling local market and West Street on your own. Guilin is reputed as being one of the world's most beautiful places with its karst landscapes, clean rivers, idyllic countryside,etc. "East or west, Guilin's scenery is best", while Yangshuo's scenery is the best of the best! The key, however, is finding the best way to see all the beautiful landscapes. Undoubtedly, taking a cruise on the Li River is the most relaxing and exhaustive way to enjoy the karst landscape. Spending a leisure day cruising down the picturesque Li River from Guilin to Yangshuo. Upon arrival in Yangshuo in the afternoon, you'll have time to explore the bustling local market and West Street on your own. Tour Highlights Admire all the highlights of the Li River during the 4-hour cruise trip. Slow down, having a relax cruise tour to feel the tranquility of Li River after your tight journey. Learning Guilin local interesting culture when cruising on the river. Optional hotel pickup and transfer service, worry-free and be on time for your cruise trip. • Admire all the highlights of the Li River during the 4-hour cruise trip. • Slow down, having a relax cruise tour to feel the tranquility of Li River after your tight journey. • Learning Guilin local interesting culture when cruising on the river. • Optional hotel pickup and transfer service, worry-free and be on time for your cruise trip. The Design of the Day Trip Saving your time for ticket booking, and deliver the ticket to you for free with no language barries. Optional professional pick-up and drop-off service, no more worries about the complicated traffic. No shopping, no tricks, no queueing to endure, free to choose what you want. Trippest Guilin Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice The Design of the Day Trip • Saving your time for ticket booking, and deliver the ticket to you for free with no language barries. • Optional professional pick-up and drop-off service, no more worries about the complicated traffic. • No shopping, no tricks, no queueing to endure, free to choose what you want. • Trippest Guilin Office: English-speaking backup support - We are very happy to hear your voice Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip We will deliver tickets to you or ask the hotel staff to pass the ticket to you if you're not in hotel the night before the tour (without transfer service). Or you'll be informed the exact pickup time via email or hotel message the night before tour (With transfer service). If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Note: Please enter the name and address of your hotel information in Guilin, passport information and contact details at the time of your booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 AM –8:50 AMTransfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier The cruise usually departs at 9 am or 9:30 am, and the driver will pick you up from your hotel at around 8 am. ( If you have booked the pier transfer service) The driver will hold a sign of your name wait at your hotel lobby. Then transfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier, it will take about 50 minutes on the way. The driver will help you to get cruise tickets and lead you to foreigner access at Mopanshan Pier for boarding. Or you can take a taxi to Mopanshan pier by yourself. ( If you haven't book the pier transfer service) Show the taxi driver Chinese: "您好师傅，请送我到磨盘山码头." You need to get to the wharf at least 30 minutes before departure to leave enough time for passport inspection. Professional driver and our vehicle Cruises at the pier Details about Your Transport: The free hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you may pay the extra fee. Please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. 9:30 AM – 1:30 PMEnjoy The Beauty of Li River On The Boat Hailed as having the largest and most beautiful karst landscape, Li River meanders for about 102 miles, boasting incomparable scenes of lofty green peaks on both of its banks.The most essential part is about 52-mile (83-kilometer) from Guilin to Yangshuo which the cruise pass by. In fact, the best section of this part is between Yangdi Village and Xingping Town. Best part of Li River 3-star cruise interior Good to know: Since the lunch on the boat is a Chinese simple meal, many customers feedback for lunch is bad. It is recommended to bring some snacks by yourself. The lunch fee is not included in cruise ticket. On the deck The hills on both sides of the river, with their eclectic shapes are truly favors from nature, and most of them are named after their extraordinary appearance. Just let your imagination fly! You will see the Elephant Trunk Hill, vividly resembling a giant elephant drinking water, Solitary Beauty Peak like a lonely goddess. The most magnificant one is Nine-Horse Fresco Hill, you can count how many horses on the "giant mural". Nine-Horse Fresco Hill Spiral Shell Hill The most beautiful reflection can be seen on the Yellow Cloth Shoal, the scene printed on the note CNY 20. Many travelers come to Li River for this part due to the viewing on Chinese RMB. A large beige flagstone under the water surface looks like a piece of yellow cloth laid flat on the riverbed, that's why called Yellow Cloth Shoal. When the weather is fine, the reflection is so clear that you can hardly distinguish it from the real hill. Landscape on Note CNY 20 Customers at the front of Yellow Cloth Shoal 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM Visit Yangshuo Upon arrival at Yangshuo Longtoushan disembarkation pier, the cruising tour goes to an end. After that, you can go Yangshuo downtown to enjoy roughly 3 hours of free time to stroll around the local market and bustling West Street, commonly referred to as a 'Global Village.' If you prefer to stay in Yangshuo, please contact your hotel in Yangshuo for clear directions to your accommodation in advance. Most of Yangshuo hotels can provide pickup service. If you book the option "Ticket and Round-way Transfer", the driver will await you at Green Lotus Hotel Yangshuo at 5pm, which is closed to West Street, with holding your name sign, you will be dropped off at your hotel in Guilin. Customers at West Street Bustling West Street at night Share Your Experience: We welcome you to share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin and Yangshuo. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip We will deliver tickets to you or ask the hotel staff to pass the ticket to you if you're not in hotel the night before the tour (without transfer service). Or you'll be informed the exact pickup time via email or hotel message the night before tour (With transfer service). If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Note: Please enter the name and address of your hotel information in Guilin, passport information and contact details at the time of your booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 AM –8:50 AMTransfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier The cruise usually departs at 9 am or 9:30 am, and the driver will pick you up from your hotel at around 8 am. ( If you have booked the pier transfer service) The driver will hold a sign of your name wait at your hotel lobby. Then transfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier, it will take about 50 minutes on the way. The driver will help you to get cruise tickets and lead you to foreigner access at Mopanshan Pier for boarding. Or you can take a taxi to Mopanshan pier by yourself. ( If you haven't book the pier transfer service) Show the taxi driver Chinese: "您好师傅，请送我到磨盘山码头." You need to get to the wharf at least 30 minutes before departure to leave enough time for passport inspection. Professional driver and our vehicle Cruises at the pier Details about Your Transport: The free hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you may pay the extra fee. Please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. 9:30 AM – 1:30 PMEnjoy The Beauty of Li River On The Boat Hailed as having the largest and most beautiful karst landscape, Li River meanders for about 102 miles, boasting incomparable scenes of lofty green peaks on both of its banks.The most essential part is about 52-mile (83-kilometer) from Guilin to Yangshuo which the cruise pass by. In fact, the best section of this part is between Yangdi Village and Xingping Town. Best part of Li River 3-star cruise interior Good to know: Since the lunch on the boat is a Chinese simple meal, many customers feedback for lunch is bad. It is recommended to bring some snacks by yourself. The lunch fee is not included in cruise ticket. On the deck The hills on both sides of the river, with their eclectic shapes are truly favors from nature, and most of them are named after their extraordinary appearance. Just let your imagination fly! You will see the Elephant Trunk Hill, vividly resembling a giant elephant drinking water, Solitary Beauty Peak like a lonely goddess. The most magnificant one is Nine-Horse Fresco Hill, you can count how many horses on the "giant mural". Nine-Horse Fresco Hill Spiral Shell Hill The most beautiful reflection can be seen on the Yellow Cloth Shoal, the scene printed on the note CNY 20. Many travelers come to Li River for this part due to the viewing on Chinese RMB. A large beige flagstone under the water surface looks like a piece of yellow cloth laid flat on the riverbed, that's why called Yellow Cloth Shoal. When the weather is fine, the reflection is so clear that you can hardly distinguish it from the real hill. Landscape on Note CNY 20 Customers at the front of Yellow Cloth Shoal 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM Visit Yangshuo Upon arrival at Yangshuo Longtoushan disembarkation pier, the cruising tour goes to an end. After that, you can go Yangshuo downtown to enjoy roughly 3 hours of free time to stroll around the local market and bustling West Street, commonly referred to as a 'Global Village.' If you prefer to stay in Yangshuo, please contact your hotel in Yangshuo for clear directions to your accommodation in advance. Most of Yangshuo hotels can provide pickup service. If you book the option "Ticket and Round-way Transfer", the driver will await you at Green Lotus Hotel Yangshuo at 5pm, which is closed to West Street, with holding your name sign, you will be dropped off at your hotel in Guilin. Customers at West Street Bustling West Street at night Share Your Experience: We welcome you to share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin and Yangshuo. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. The Day Before Your Day Trip We will deliver tickets to you or ask the hotel staff to pass the ticket to you if you're not in hotel the night before the tour (without transfer service). Or you'll be informed the exact pickup time via email or hotel message the night before tour (With transfer service). If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Note: Please enter the name and address of your hotel information in Guilin, passport information and contact details at the time of your booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. The Day Before Your Day Trip We will deliver tickets to you or ask the hotel staff to pass the ticket to you if you're not in hotel the night before the tour (without transfer service). Or you'll be informed the exact pickup time via email or hotel message the night before tour (With transfer service). If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Note: Please enter the name and address of your hotel information in Guilin, passport information and contact details at the time of your booking. Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. We will deliver tickets to you or ask the hotel staff to pass the ticket to you if you're not in hotel the night before the tour (without transfer service). Or you'll be informed the exact pickup time via email or hotel message the night before tour (With transfer service). If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. • Please enter the name and address of your hotel information in Guilin, passport information and contact details at the time of your booking. • Wechat is widely use in China, we suggest you to use Wechat for further communication if possible. 8:00 AM –8:50 AMTransfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier The cruise usually departs at 9 am or 9:30 am, and the driver will pick you up from your hotel at around 8 am. ( If you have booked the pier transfer service) The driver will hold a sign of your name wait at your hotel lobby. Then transfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier, it will take about 50 minutes on the way. The driver will help you to get cruise tickets and lead you to foreigner access at Mopanshan Pier for boarding. Or you can take a taxi to Mopanshan pier by yourself. ( If you haven't book the pier transfer service) Show the taxi driver Chinese: "您好师傅，请送我到磨盘山码头." You need to get to the wharf at least 30 minutes before departure to leave enough time for passport inspection. Professional driver and our vehicle Cruises at the pier Details about Your Transport: The free hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you may pay the extra fee. Please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. 8:00 AM –8:50 AMTransfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier The cruise usually departs at 9 am or 9:30 am, and the driver will pick you up from your hotel at around 8 am. ( If you have booked the pier transfer service) The driver will hold a sign of your name wait at your hotel lobby. Then transfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier, it will take about 50 minutes on the way. The driver will help you to get cruise tickets and lead you to foreigner access at Mopanshan Pier for boarding. Or you can take a taxi to Mopanshan pier by yourself. ( If you haven't book the pier transfer service) Show the taxi driver Chinese: "您好师傅，请送我到磨盘山码头." You need to get to the wharf at least 30 minutes before departure to leave enough time for passport inspection. Professional driver and our vehicle Cruises at the pier Details about Your Transport: The free hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you may pay the extra fee. Please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. The cruise usually departs at 9 am or 9:30 am, and the driver will pick you up from your hotel at around 8 am. ( If you have booked the pier transfer service) The driver will hold a sign of your name wait at your hotel lobby. Then transfer to Mopanshan Cruise Pier, it will take about 50 minutes on the way. The driver will help you to get cruise tickets and lead you to foreigner access at Mopanshan Pier for boarding. Or you can take a taxi to Mopanshan pier by yourself. ( If you haven't book the pier transfer service) Show the taxi driver Chinese: "您好师傅，请送我到磨盘山码头." You need to get to the wharf at least 30 minutes before departure to leave enough time for passport inspection. Professional driver and our vehicle Details about Your Transport: • The free hotel pickup and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. For further distances, you may pay the extra fee. Please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. • Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. 9:30 AM – 1:30 PMEnjoy The Beauty of Li River On The Boat Hailed as having the largest and most beautiful karst landscape, Li River meanders for about 102 miles, boasting incomparable scenes of lofty green peaks on both of its banks.The most essential part is about 52-mile (83-kilometer) from Guilin to Yangshuo which the cruise pass by. In fact, the best section of this part is between Yangdi Village and Xingping Town. Best part of Li River 3-star cruise interior Good to know: Since the lunch on the boat is a Chinese simple meal, many customers feedback for lunch is bad. It is recommended to bring some snacks by yourself. The lunch fee is not included in cruise ticket. On the deck The hills on both sides of the river, with their eclectic shapes are truly favors from nature, and most of them are named after their extraordinary appearance. Just let your imagination fly! You will see the Elephant Trunk Hill, vividly resembling a giant elephant drinking water, Solitary Beauty Peak like a lonely goddess. The most magnificant one is Nine-Horse Fresco Hill, you can count how many horses on the "giant mural". Nine-Horse Fresco Hill Spiral Shell Hill The most beautiful reflection can be seen on the Yellow Cloth Shoal, the scene printed on the note CNY 20. Many travelers come to Li River for this part due to the viewing on Chinese RMB. A large beige flagstone under the water surface looks like a piece of yellow cloth laid flat on the riverbed, that's why called Yellow Cloth Shoal. When the weather is fine, the reflection is so clear that you can hardly distinguish it from the real hill. Landscape on Note CNY 20 Customers at the front of Yellow Cloth Shoal 9:30 AM – 1:30 PMEnjoy The Beauty of Li River On The Boat Hailed as having the largest and most beautiful karst landscape, Li River meanders for about 102 miles, boasting incomparable scenes of lofty green peaks on both of its banks.The most essential part is about 52-mile (83-kilometer) from Guilin to Yangshuo which the cruise pass by. In fact, the best section of this part is between Yangdi Village and Xingping Town. Best part of Li River 3-star cruise interior Good to know: Since the lunch on the boat is a Chinese simple meal, many customers feedback for lunch is bad. It is recommended to bring some snacks by yourself. The lunch fee is not included in cruise ticket. On the deck The hills on both sides of the river, with their eclectic shapes are truly favors from nature, and most of them are named after their extraordinary appearance. Just let your imagination fly! You will see the Elephant Trunk Hill, vividly resembling a giant elephant drinking water, Solitary Beauty Peak like a lonely goddess. The most magnificant one is Nine-Horse Fresco Hill, you can count how many horses on the "giant mural". Nine-Horse Fresco Hill Spiral Shell Hill The most beautiful reflection can be seen on the Yellow Cloth Shoal, the scene printed on the note CNY 20. Many travelers come to Li River for this part due to the viewing on Chinese RMB. A large beige flagstone under the water surface looks like a piece of yellow cloth laid flat on the riverbed, that's why called Yellow Cloth Shoal. When the weather is fine, the reflection is so clear that you can hardly distinguish it from the real hill. Landscape on Note CNY 20 Customers at the front of Yellow Cloth Shoal Hailed as having the largest and most beautiful karst landscape, Li River meanders for about 102 miles, boasting incomparable scenes of lofty green peaks on both of its banks.The most essential part is about 52-mile (83-kilometer) from Guilin to Yangshuo which the cruise pass by. In fact, the best section of this part is between Yangdi Village and Xingping Town. Best part of Li River 3-star cruise interior • Since the lunch on the boat is a Chinese simple meal, many customers feedback for lunch is bad. It is recommended to bring some snacks by yourself. The lunch fee is not included in cruise ticket. The hills on both sides of the river, with their eclectic shapes are truly favors from nature, and most of them are named after their extraordinary appearance. Just let your imagination fly! You will see the Elephant Trunk Hill, vividly resembling a giant elephant drinking water, Solitary Beauty Peak like a lonely goddess. The most magnificant one is Nine-Horse Fresco Hill, you can count how many horses on the "giant mural". Nine-Horse Fresco Hill The most beautiful reflection can be seen on the Yellow Cloth Shoal, the scene printed on the note CNY 20. Many travelers come to Li River for this part due to the viewing on Chinese RMB. A large beige flagstone under the water surface looks like a piece of yellow cloth laid flat on the riverbed, that's why called Yellow Cloth Shoal. When the weather is fine, the reflection is so clear that you can hardly distinguish it from the real hill. Landscape on Note CNY 20 Customers at the front of Yellow Cloth Shoal 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM Visit Yangshuo Upon arrival at Yangshuo Longtoushan disembarkation pier, the cruising tour goes to an end. After that, you can go Yangshuo downtown to enjoy roughly 3 hours of free time to stroll around the local market and bustling West Street, commonly referred to as a 'Global Village.' If you prefer to stay in Yangshuo, please contact your hotel in Yangshuo for clear directions to your accommodation in advance. Most of Yangshuo hotels can provide pickup service. If you book the option "Ticket and Round-way Transfer", the driver will await you at Green Lotus Hotel Yangshuo at 5pm, which is closed to West Street, with holding your name sign, you will be dropped off at your hotel in Guilin. Customers at West Street Bustling West Street at night Share Your Experience: We welcome you to share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin and Yangshuo. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM Visit Yangshuo Upon arrival at Yangshuo Longtoushan disembarkation pier, the cruising tour goes to an end. After that, you can go Yangshuo downtown to enjoy roughly 3 hours of free time to stroll around the local market and bustling West Street, commonly referred to as a 'Global Village.' If you prefer to stay in Yangshuo, please contact your hotel in Yangshuo for clear directions to your accommodation in advance. Most of Yangshuo hotels can provide pickup service. If you book the option "Ticket and Round-way Transfer", the driver will await you at Green Lotus Hotel Yangshuo at 5pm, which is closed to West Street, with holding your name sign, you will be dropped off at your hotel in Guilin. Customers at West Street Bustling West Street at night Share Your Experience: We welcome you to share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin and Yangshuo. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Upon arrival at Yangshuo Longtoushan disembarkation pier, the cruising tour goes to an end. After that, you can go Yangshuo downtown to enjoy roughly 3 hours of free time to stroll around the local market and bustling West Street, commonly referred to as a 'Global Village.' If you prefer to stay in Yangshuo, please contact your hotel in Yangshuo for clear directions to your accommodation in advance. Most of Yangshuo hotels can provide pickup service. If you book the option "Ticket and Round-way Transfer", the driver will await you at Green Lotus Hotel Yangshuo at 5pm, which is closed to West Street, with holding your name sign, you will be dropped off at your hotel in Guilin. Customers at West Street Bustling West Street at night Share Your Experience: • We welcome you to share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of Guilin and Yangshuo. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Packages and Pricing 3-Star Cruise Adult Child Infant Cruise Ticket US$ 40 p/p US$ 22 p/p free Ticket + One-way transfer（Average price） US$ 56 p/p US$ 39 p/p free Ticket + Round-way tranfer（Average price） US$ 86 p/p US$ 69 p/p free 4-Star Cruise Adult Child Infant Cruise Ticket US$ 65 p/p US$ 40 p/p free Ticket + One-way transfer（Average price） US$ 80 p/p US$ 56 p/p free Ticket + Round-way tranfer（Average price） US$ 110 p/p US$ 86 p/p free Important Notes: Adult: above age 14 yrs old and height over 150cm, Child: age 6-14 yrs old and height 120-149cm, Infant: under age 6 yrs old and height under 119cm. Due to the private transfer, the price varies according to the number of people. The actual price is subject to the final checkout price. Each adult can bring one free child under 119cm with no seat, more than one child will be charged as a child ticket. Children from 120cm to 149cm will charege as child's ticket with seat, and children over 150cm will charge as adult tickets. Private transfer with no other participants. Price Include: 3-star Li River boat ticket with English explaining. Round-way transfer: Hotel to Pier, Yangshuo to Hotel in Guilin (Optional). One-way transfer from Hotel to Mopanshan Pier (Optional). Price Exclude: Lunch. English-speaking tour guide service. Personal expenses. 3-Star Cruise Adult Child Infant Cruise Ticket US$ 40 p/p US$ 22 p/p free Ticket + One-way transfer（Average price） US$ 56 p/p US$ 39 p/p free Ticket + Round-way tranfer（Average price） US$ 86 p/p US$ 69 p/p free 4-Star Cruise Adult Child Infant Cruise Ticket US$ 65 p/p US$ 40 p/p free Ticket + One-way transfer（Average price） US$ 80 p/p US$ 56 p/p free Ticket + Round-way tranfer（Average price） US$ 110 p/p US$ 86 p/p free Important Notes: Adult: above age 14 yrs old and height over 150cm, Child: age 6-14 yrs old and height 120-149cm, Infant: under age 6 yrs old and height under 119cm. Due to the private transfer, the price varies according to the number of people. The actual price is subject to the final checkout price. Each adult can bring one free child under 119cm with no seat, more than one child will be charged as a child ticket. Children from 120cm to 149cm will charege as child's ticket with seat, and children over 150cm will charge as adult tickets. Private transfer with no other participants. • Adult: above age 14 yrs old and height over 150cm, Child: age 6-14 yrs old and height 120-149cm, Infant: under age 6 yrs old and height under 119cm. • Due to the private transfer, the price varies according to the number of people. The actual price is subject to the final checkout price. • Each adult can bring one free child under 119cm with no seat, more than one child will be charged as a child ticket. • Children from 120cm to 149cm will charege as child's ticket with seat, and children over 150cm will charge as adult tickets. • Private transfer with no other participants. Price Include: 3-star Li River boat ticket with English explaining. Round-way transfer: Hotel to Pier, Yangshuo to Hotel in Guilin (Optional). One-way transfer from Hotel to Mopanshan Pier (Optional). Price Exclude: Lunch. English-speaking tour guide service. Personal expenses. Price Include: 3-star Li River boat ticket with English explaining. Round-way transfer: Hotel to Pier, Yangshuo to Hotel in Guilin (Optional). One-way transfer from Hotel to Mopanshan Pier (Optional). Price Exclude: Lunch. English-speaking tour guide service. Personal expenses. • 3-star Li River boat ticket with English explaining. • Round-way transfer: Hotel to Pier, Yangshuo to Hotel in Guilin (Optional). • One-way transfer from Hotel to Mopanshan Pier (Optional). • Lunch. • English-speaking tour guide service. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-18807734970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 45 p/p Transfer Type Li River Cruise Ticket Ticket + One-way Transfer Ticket + Round-way Transfer Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 45 p/p Transfer Type Li River Cruise Ticket Ticket + One-way Transfer Ticket + Round-way Transfer Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 45 p/p Transfer Type Li River Cruise Ticket Ticket + One-way Transfer Ticket + Round-way Transfer Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Transfer Type Li River Cruise Ticket Ticket + One-way Transfer Ticket + Round-way Transfer Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20