ID: 644e84708f201e97
Title: Beijing Water Cube: How to Visit
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/beijing/attraction/water-cube.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

The Water Cube (Beijing National Aquatics Center) stands as one of the iconic landmarks of the Beijing 2008 Olympics. Alongside the Bird's Nest (Beijing National Stadium), it is situated on Beijing's north-south axis, forming a remarkable architectural duo that symbolizes the city's modernity and Olympic legacy. This article offers you some ideas on how to plan a tour of the Water Cube. • Things to Do • Best Times to Visit • Is It Worth Going Inside? • How to Get There? • What Attractions Can Be Visited Together • Why Is It Called? What Can I Do in the Water Cube? After the Beijing 2008 Olympics, the Water Cube was transformed into a multifunctional sports, entertainment, and fitness center. This section introduces you to what you can do in the Water Cube. Marvel at the Beautiful Night View The night view of the Water Cube is something you should not miss. It lights up with blue lights, resembling a glittering blue ocean in the dark night, creating a dazzling sight that is perfect for photography and sightseeing. Spend an evening there — you wouldn't regret it. At night, the Bird's Nest illuminates with red lights, resembling a burning flame. The blue lights of the Water Cube and the red lights of the Bird's Nest form a striking color contrast, complementing each other and adding a touch of charm to Beijing's nightscape. The night view of Water Cube and Bird's Nest Tips: Illumination time (depending on the site): generally, it's 6:30–7:30pm for lights on and 9:30–10pm for lights off. Recommended photo spots: The road between the Water Cube and the Bird's Nest The diagonal right side of the Water Cube's west gate The top floor of Beijing Olympic Tower Illumination time (depending on the site): generally, it's 6:30–7:30pm for lights on and 9:30–10pm for lights off. Recommended photo spots: • The road between the Water Cube and the Bird's Nest • The diagonal right side of the Water Cube's west gate • The top floor of Beijing Olympic Tower Swim in the Olympic Warm-Up Pool There are two swimming pools. One is the Olympic competition pool and diving pool, which is open to the public for visiting but not for swimming. The other is Huo Yingdong Hall (the Olympics warm-up pool), which is open year-round for public swimming, providing an exceptional opportunity to immerse yourself in a world-class aquatic facility. In Huo Yingdong Hall, you could swim in the pool that meets international competition standards. The clean water quality from ozone disinfection and external circulation allows you to have safe and close contact with the water. The swimming pool is divided into a shallow water area and a deep water area. You must have a deep water certificate to enter the 2-meter (7-foot) deep water area, and you could also take the test on-site. The water park is packed with advanced facilities that let you engage with the excitement and relaxation of water fun. You could zoom down thrilling slides, float effortlessly in the wave pool, or take a leisurely ride around the park in a drifting boat. If you go to Beijing in the summer or travel with children, this is an ideal summer resort and family activity venue. Since it's indoors, you wouldn't have to worry about getting sunburned. Tips: Some projects have height and weight requirements. You'd better understand in advance to avoid queuing and wasting time. You couldn't wear slippers to enter. We recommend wearing non-slip socks or beach socks. • Some projects have height and weight requirements. You'd better understand in advance to avoid queuing and wasting time. • You couldn't wear slippers to enter. We recommend wearing non-slip socks or beach socks. The Water Cube's water park is more suitable for children. However, there are only 3–4 amusement facilities suitable for adults. If you prefer open-air water parks with a larger space and more thrilling experiences, you could consider the Happy Magic Water Cube Water Park. Experience Ice Sports at the Winter Olympics Venue If you are interested in ice sports, you could head to the Ice Cube in the basement of the Water Cube South Square. Open year-round, this Winter Olympics-level venue offers you a chance to embrace the thrill and challenge of ice activities. There, you could try ice-skating and curling, and it's beginner-friendly too. If you are worried that you couldn't skate well, you could rent a cart to assist you. The Ice Cube is suitable for figure skating. If you prefer speed skating, the Ice Ribbon (Beijing National Speed Skating Oval, 3.5 kilometers (2 miles) from the Ice Cube) is recommended. It was also a venue for the Winter Olympics but the cost is higher than the Ice Cube. Feel the Olympic Atmosphere Step onto the first floor and explore Olympic traces, such as the Winter Olympics torch, tickets for the two Olympic Games, and handprints and postcard messages from athletes around the globe. This immersive experience brings you closer to the spirit of the Olympics. In addition to experiencing it with your eyes, you could also treasure the Olympic atmosphere through real objects. In some shops on the first floor, you could buy Olympic souvenirs to cherish the Olympic memories. Outside the shops, you could also customize your own Olympic gold medal for a truly unforgettable keepsake, or leave your Olympic mark by collecting Olympic-related stamps. Best Times to Visit the Water Cube Spring (April–May) and autumn (September–October) are the best times to visit the Water Cube. The suitable temperature is perfect for outdoor walking and sightseeing, avoiding the heat of summer and the cold of winter. Find more weather details in our Best time to visit Beijing. For the most breathtaking experience, plan your visit for the evening, as the Water Cube's night view is spectacular, far surpassing its daytime appearance. Tips: Even more, if you want to swim and try ice sports, you are advised to avoid weekends, China's summer vacation (July–August), and China's winter vacation (January–February) to steer clear of crowds. Similarly, if you want to enjoy the water park, you are better off avoiding holidays and China's summer vacation for a more relaxing experience. Even more, if you want to swim and try ice sports, you are advised to avoid weekends, China's summer vacation (July–August), and China's winter vacation (January–February) to steer clear of crowds. Similarly, if you want to enjoy the water park, you are better off avoiding holidays and China's summer vacation for a more relaxing experience. • 9-Day Ancient China Heritage Trip • 16-Day Beijing, Nanjing, Hangzhou, Shanghai and Taipei Tour Is It Worth Going Inside the Water Cube? Inside the Water Cube For most people, admiring the exterior of the Water Cube, especially at night, is enough, and it's completely free. The only area that could be visited inside is the first floor, which includes two swimming halls, Olympic-themed exhibitions, donation-themed exhibitions, souvenir shops, and a water park. A visit usually takes 30–60 minutes but with a ticket fee of 48 RMB (7 USD). If you are not particularly interested, we do not recommend that you spend any money to enter. However, if you want to swim, experience ice sports, or take your children to the water park, you could go inside. How to Get to the Water Cube The Water Cube is about 13 kilometers (8 miles, 30 minutes' drive) from the center of Beijing. You could take subway Line 8 or Line 15 to Olympic Park Station (15 minutes' walk to the Water Cube) or Olympic Sports Center Station (20 minutes' walk to the Water Cube), or take a taxi directly to the west gate of the National Aquatics Center. What Attractions Can Be Visited Together with the Water Cube? There are many attractions nearby, with the Bird's Nest and China Science and Technology Museum being our top recommendations. The Bird's Nest (Beijing National Stadium), a 3-minute walk from the Water Cube, is the venue that hosted the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2008 Olympics and the 2022 Winter Olympics. At night, its illuminated structure is very eye-catching and, together with the Water Cube, forms a captivating landscape. Our guests visited the Bird's Nest China Science and Technology Museum is 2.5 kilometers (1.5 miles, 8 minutes' drive) away from the Water Cube. You could marvel at robots playing the Chinese zither, dancing, and playing chess. You could also watch a virtual demonstration of a driverless car to experience how technology changes human life. If you want to explore modern China or take your children, this museum is a must-visit. China Science and Technology Museum If you have more ideas about the itinerary, just contact us and we will customize a satisfactory itinerary for you. Why Is It Called the Water Cube? The name Water Cube comes from its unique appearance and surface materials. The design of the Water Cube is inspired by cell arrangements and the structure of soap bubbles. The entire building is in the shape of a square box, and the exterior is made of more than 3,000 of the world's most advanced environmentally friendly and energy-saving ETFE (ethylene tetrafluoroethylene) membrane materials, which look like irregular bubbles. The surface of these "bubbles" reflects sunlight, making the entire building "a crystal water container in the sun", hence the name "Water Cube". The Water Cube under the sun The high light transmittance of the ETFE membrane could ensure that 90% natural light enters the venue and, even as a fully enclosed venue, there is no need to turn on the lights during the day. If you stand in the venue, you would feel like you are in a real water world. The high light transmittance of the ETFE membrane Tips: The Water Cube is a rectangular block, while the nearby Bird's Nest is a circular shape. Together, they embody the Chinese architectural concept of "round heaven and square earth" — the ancients believed that the sky was a dome covering a square ground. This concept is also used in other Chinese buildings, such as the Temple of Heaven, Ditan Park, and the hutongs in Beijing. The Water Cube is a rectangular block, while the nearby Bird's Nest is a circular shape. Together, they embody the Chinese architectural concept of "round heaven and square earth" — the ancients believed that the sky was a dome covering a square ground. This concept is also used in other Chinese buildings, such as the Temple of Heaven, Ditan Park, and the hutongs in Beijing.