ID: 49128d59351b786
Title: China Photography Tours, See the Best of China with Top Photographers
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/tour/photo-tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

If you like photography, China is heaven. Street life or documentary photographers can wander around for days and see interesting topics on the streets and around every corner.China also has rich resource of natural scenery, such as Guilin, the Yellow Mountains, and Xiapu's Mudflat and Gobi Desert. China Water Towns offer typical ancient Chinese ink painting photos. Let us take you to the most photographed places in China to meet Chinese people. All the arrangements and attractions of our photography tours are considerately designed for you to get an in-depth tour of China's history, landscapes, and cultures. We humbly acknowledge that many of our past guests have been skilled photographers, some working for travel magazines. We insist on helping you discover the best photography locations, and showing you the best of China. Most Popular Photography Tours Shots of Early Morning and Dusk at the Li River, and the Rice Terraces Guilin–Yangshuo–Xingping–Longshengs A specially-designed Guilin itinerary enabling you to photograph the Li River's dreamy dawn, idyllic fishing scenery, a minority village, and the rice terraces. At this tour you will boost your photography skills with your guide while you enjoy one of the greatest sunrises of China. View More Zhangjiajie "Avatar" Photography Tour Zhangjiajie's Wulingyuan National Park The trip offers an opportunity to photograph special Hallelujah Mountain inspiration for Avatar's floating rocks. Take photos of Zhangjiajie's peculiar pillars in seas of clouds, towering rock walls in exclusive Yangjiajie, unique "paddy fields in the sky", sunrises, and sunsets. View More Classic China Photo Tour Beijing–Guilin–Yangshuo–Hangzhou–Huangshan–Shanghai This photographic tour is for photography lovers planning to visit China for their first time, and wanting to exercise their interest on an in-depth journey. Record a multidimensional China, including historical sites, natural landscapes, idyllic scenes, and modern life. View More Fixed Time Once A Year Tour Guided By Top Photographers 9-Day Guilin and Zhangjiajie Unique Photography Combo(Small Group) You will be taken to exclusive places to shoot sunrise and sunset as the background of karst hills and Zhangjiajie landscapes. View More Especial Photography Destination Tours The Photogenic Yellow Mountains and Nearby Ancient Villages Huangshan–Hongcun–Xidi An interest-oriented itinerary allowing you to shoot the scenery of the Yellow Mountains, the peaceful life of Hongcun, and the exquisite ancient buildings of Xidi. View More Classic Xiamen and Xiapu Mudflat Photography Tour Xiamen–Yongding–Xiapu Shoot classic Xiamen architecture, the striking Yongding Hakka Earthen Buildings, and Xiapu, known for its mudflats, sunrises, sunsets, and local fishing life. View More Tailor-make Exclusive Tours for Pros Professional photographers will shoot unique scenery in some must-see and exclusive spots. Your guide will help you to avoid the crowds, and take you to sunrise or sunset places in the right time according to your needs. Ask our travel advisor to tailor-make your phtography tour of China! No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us If you like photography, China is heaven. Street life or documentary photographers can wander around for days and see interesting topics on the streets and around every corner.China also has rich resource of natural scenery, such as Guilin, the Yellow Mountains, and Xiapu's Mudflat and Gobi Desert. China Water Towns offer typical ancient Chinese ink painting photos. Let us take you to the most photographed places in China to meet Chinese people. All the arrangements and attractions of our photography tours are considerately designed for you to get an in-depth tour of China's history, landscapes, and cultures. We humbly acknowledge that many of our past guests have been skilled photographers, some working for travel magazines. We insist on helping you discover the best photography locations, and showing you the best of China. Most Popular Photography Tours Shots of Early Morning and Dusk at the Li River, and the Rice Terraces Guilin–Yangshuo–Xingping–Longshengs A specially-designed Guilin itinerary enabling you to photograph the Li River's dreamy dawn, idyllic fishing scenery, a minority village, and the rice terraces. At this tour you will boost your photography skills with your guide while you enjoy one of the greatest sunrises of China. View More Zhangjiajie "Avatar" Photography Tour Zhangjiajie's Wulingyuan National Park The trip offers an opportunity to photograph special Hallelujah Mountain inspiration for Avatar's floating rocks. Take photos of Zhangjiajie's peculiar pillars in seas of clouds, towering rock walls in exclusive Yangjiajie, unique "paddy fields in the sky", sunrises, and sunsets. View More Classic China Photo Tour Beijing–Guilin–Yangshuo–Hangzhou–Huangshan–Shanghai This photographic tour is for photography lovers planning to visit China for their first time, and wanting to exercise their interest on an in-depth journey. Record a multidimensional China, including historical sites, natural landscapes, idyllic scenes, and modern life. View More Fixed Time Once A Year Tour Guided By Top Photographers 9-Day Guilin and Zhangjiajie Unique Photography Combo(Small Group) You will be taken to exclusive places to shoot sunrise and sunset as the background of karst hills and Zhangjiajie landscapes. View More Shots of Early Morning and Dusk at the Li River, and the Rice Terraces Guilin–Yangshuo–Xingping–Longshengs A specially-designed Guilin itinerary enabling you to photograph the Li River's dreamy dawn, idyllic fishing scenery, a minority village, and the rice terraces. At this tour you will boost your photography skills with your guide while you enjoy one of the greatest sunrises of China. View More Shots of Early Morning and Dusk at the Li River, and the Rice Terraces Guilin–Yangshuo–Xingping–Longshengs A specially-designed Guilin itinerary enabling you to photograph the Li River's dreamy dawn, idyllic fishing scenery, a minority village, and the rice terraces. At this tour you will boost your photography skills with your guide while you enjoy one of the greatest sunrises of China. View More A specially-designed Guilin itinerary enabling you to photograph the Li River's dreamy dawn, idyllic fishing scenery, a minority village, and the rice terraces. At this tour you will boost your photography skills with your guide while you enjoy one of the greatest sunrises of China. Zhangjiajie "Avatar" Photography Tour Zhangjiajie's Wulingyuan National Park The trip offers an opportunity to photograph special Hallelujah Mountain inspiration for Avatar's floating rocks. Take photos of Zhangjiajie's peculiar pillars in seas of clouds, towering rock walls in exclusive Yangjiajie, unique "paddy fields in the sky", sunrises, and sunsets. View More Zhangjiajie "Avatar" Photography Tour Zhangjiajie's Wulingyuan National Park The trip offers an opportunity to photograph special Hallelujah Mountain inspiration for Avatar's floating rocks. Take photos of Zhangjiajie's peculiar pillars in seas of clouds, towering rock walls in exclusive Yangjiajie, unique "paddy fields in the sky", sunrises, and sunsets. View More The trip offers an opportunity to photograph special Hallelujah Mountain inspiration for Avatar's floating rocks. Take photos of Zhangjiajie's peculiar pillars in seas of clouds, towering rock walls in exclusive Yangjiajie, unique "paddy fields in the sky", sunrises, and sunsets. Classic China Photo Tour Beijing–Guilin–Yangshuo–Hangzhou–Huangshan–Shanghai This photographic tour is for photography lovers planning to visit China for their first time, and wanting to exercise their interest on an in-depth journey. Record a multidimensional China, including historical sites, natural landscapes, idyllic scenes, and modern life. View More Classic China Photo Tour Beijing–Guilin–Yangshuo–Hangzhou–Huangshan–Shanghai This photographic tour is for photography lovers planning to visit China for their first time, and wanting to exercise their interest on an in-depth journey. Record a multidimensional China, including historical sites, natural landscapes, idyllic scenes, and modern life. View More This photographic tour is for photography lovers planning to visit China for their first time, and wanting to exercise their interest on an in-depth journey. Record a multidimensional China, including historical sites, natural landscapes, idyllic scenes, and modern life. Fixed Time Once A Year Tour Guided By Top Photographers 9-Day Guilin and Zhangjiajie Unique Photography Combo(Small Group) You will be taken to exclusive places to shoot sunrise and sunset as the background of karst hills and Zhangjiajie landscapes. View More Fixed Time Once A Year Tour Guided By Top Photographers 9-Day Guilin and Zhangjiajie Unique Photography Combo(Small Group) You will be taken to exclusive places to shoot sunrise and sunset as the background of karst hills and Zhangjiajie landscapes. View More You will be taken to exclusive places to shoot sunrise and sunset as the background of karst hills and Zhangjiajie landscapes. Especial Photography Destination Tours The Photogenic Yellow Mountains and Nearby Ancient Villages Huangshan–Hongcun–Xidi An interest-oriented itinerary allowing you to shoot the scenery of the Yellow Mountains, the peaceful life of Hongcun, and the exquisite ancient buildings of Xidi. View More Classic Xiamen and Xiapu Mudflat Photography Tour Xiamen–Yongding–Xiapu Shoot classic Xiamen architecture, the striking Yongding Hakka Earthen Buildings, and Xiapu, known for its mudflats, sunrises, sunsets, and local fishing life. View More The Photogenic Yellow Mountains and Nearby Ancient Villages Huangshan–Hongcun–Xidi An interest-oriented itinerary allowing you to shoot the scenery of the Yellow Mountains, the peaceful life of Hongcun, and the exquisite ancient buildings of Xidi. View More The Photogenic Yellow Mountains and Nearby Ancient Villages Huangshan–Hongcun–Xidi An interest-oriented itinerary allowing you to shoot the scenery of the Yellow Mountains, the peaceful life of Hongcun, and the exquisite ancient buildings of Xidi. View More An interest-oriented itinerary allowing you to shoot the scenery of the Yellow Mountains, the peaceful life of Hongcun, and the exquisite ancient buildings of Xidi. Classic Xiamen and Xiapu Mudflat Photography Tour Xiamen–Yongding–Xiapu Shoot classic Xiamen architecture, the striking Yongding Hakka Earthen Buildings, and Xiapu, known for its mudflats, sunrises, sunsets, and local fishing life. View More Classic Xiamen and Xiapu Mudflat Photography Tour Xiamen–Yongding–Xiapu Shoot classic Xiamen architecture, the striking Yongding Hakka Earthen Buildings, and Xiapu, known for its mudflats, sunrises, sunsets, and local fishing life. View More Shoot classic Xiamen architecture, the striking Yongding Hakka Earthen Buildings, and Xiapu, known for its mudflats, sunrises, sunsets, and local fishing life. Tailor-make Exclusive Tours for Pros Professional photographers will shoot unique scenery in some must-see and exclusive spots. Your guide will help you to avoid the crowds, and take you to sunrise or sunset places in the right time according to your needs. Ask our travel advisor to tailor-make your phtography tour of China! No Suitable Tour? Need Advice?