ID: 5164f491053302d6
Title: Guilin Li River Hiking: 4 Top Routes in Yangshuo With Hiking Tips
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/china-hiking/liriver-hiking.htm
Source: China Highlights
Date: 2025-09-17T00:00:00
================================================================================

For first-time visitors to Guilin, a visit to the Li River, the city's mother river, is a must-do. Generally speaking, there are three ways to explore the Li River: by a Li River Cruise, by hiking, and by gazing from a height. While a cruise is the most popular way to admire the river, it can be a bit of a superficial experience. Hiking is the ultimate way to deepen your impression of Guilin's karst landscape and truly experience its beauty. • Hiking 4 Hours: From Quanjiazhou to Xingping Ancient Town • Hiking 7 Hours: From Yangdi Pier to Xingping Ancient Town • Hiking 3 Hours: Xingping Osmanthus Ancient Trail • Hiking 4 Hours: Light Hike After Sunrise at Xianggong Mountain • Best Times to Hike • Tips Before Hiking Along the Li River From Quanjiazhou to Xingping Ancient Town: Easy Hike With Most Stunning Scenery • Route Overview: Quanjiazhou Village - Lengshui Village - River Crossing to Mashan Pier - Chaoban Mountain - Xingping Ancient Town • Distance: Approximately 12 km (4-5 hours to complete) • Elevation Gain: Approximately 200 meters • River Crossings: 1 This route covers the best of the Li River. Most of the trails are paved, making it a relatively easy hike, which is perfect for beginners and families traveling with teenagers. If you're tired, feel free to relax and play in the shallows of the Li River. If you're starting from Guilin City, it takes about an hour and a half to drive to Quanjiazhou Village. From there, it's a 7-kilometer hike along the winding Li River path to Lengshui Village. From Lengshui Village, you'll easily find a ferry to take you across the river to Mashan Pier(about 2 USD per person). Afterwards, hike about 5 km along the paved cement trail, passing the 20-yuan Huangbu Reflection Area, to reach Xingping Ancient Town. If you feel exhausted in Lengshui Village, you can cross the river and take a golf cart directly back to Xingping Ancient Town for another 2 US dollars per person. Please note that supplies can be easily found in the villages along the way, and you could often see locals grilling freshly caught river fish along the riverside trail, so there is no need to carry too much food and slow down your hiking pace. 20-yuan RMB Huangbu Reflection Area For a Longer Hike With More Stunning Views... • Route Overview: Yangdi Pier - River Crossing to Shuiyantou Village - Langshi Village - River Crossing to Quanjiazhou Village - Lengshui Village - River Crossing to Mashan Pier - Xingping Ancient Town • Distance: Approximately 18 km (5-6 hours to complete) • Elevation Gain: Approximately 200 meters • River Crossings: 3 For hiking enthusiasts, if you've reserved a full day for a hike, the route from Quanjiazhou to Lengshui Village might be too short to support your day. We recommend adding a route from Yangdi Pier to Quanjiazhou Village to experience more of the Li River's beauty. This route is also easy to complete with well-paved trails, and the shallows along the Li River are perfect for children to play and relax. After crossing the river from Yangdi Pier, hike about 2 km along the stone path outside the Shuiyantou Village or along the shallows of the Li River. You'll pass scenic spots like the Carp Hanging Wall (red rocks at the foot of the cliff resemble a red carp) and the Boy Worshipping Guanyin (two peaks, one high and one low, resemble a boy worshipping Guanyin Bodhisattva) before arriving at Langshi Village. In Langshi Village, you can take a short break to admire the village's ancient buildings and quietly enjoy the scenery of Langshi (white waves wash over the shallows, and the Wenbi Peak waterfall on the opposite bank, near Quanjiazhou Village). Then, walk about 3 km along the river to the Langshi Village ferry to cross to Quanjiazhou Village. Continue hiking to Xingping Ancient Town. The Scenery of Langshi From Yangdi Pier to Xingping Ancient Town: Suitable for Experienced Hikers If you are an experienced hiker looking for a more challenging hike or to see some rarely seen scenery, we recommend the following routes: • Route Overview: Yangdi Pier - Daqiaotou Village - Climb a small hill to the Xianei Trail - Quanjiazhou Village - Lengshui Village - Cross the river to Mashan Pier - Xingping Ancient Town • Distance: Approximately 20 km (6-7 hours to complete) • Elevation Gain: Approximately 300 meters • River Crossings: 1 • Note: This route is risky and lacks necessary signposts. A local guide is a must. Except for crossing the river directly from Yangdi Pier, you will walk about 1 km back to Daqiaotou Village instead, then head south along a dirt road for about 2 km to the foot of a wild and nameless hill. Slowly ascend along the path, reaching the summit viewpoint to admire the stunning scenery of the Li River's first bend, then slowly descend. The entire hike takes about 2 hours, depending on the weather conditions. You may encounter waterfalls along the way (more likely during flood season), showcasing the wild and beautiful karst landscape. After descending, continue hiking for about 2 km along the Xianei Trail that is shaded by bamboo forests. Then you would reach Quanjiazhou Village, where you can continue hiking to Xingping Ancient Town. Keep in mind that most of the hill paths are well-traveled, off-piste trails. Due to a lack of signposts, this hiking route on the hill is hard to distinguish from dangerous hunting trails that easily lead to getting lost. Therefore, a local guide is essential for this hike. Contact us now to plan an exciting outdoor adventure together. Xingping Osmanthus Ancient Trail: Best for Seniors • Route Overview: Xingping Ancient Town - Cross the river to Dahebei Village - Sickle Bay - Tengjiao Bridge - Detour to visit Tengjiao Temple - Climb along the Osmanthus Ancient Trail to view the Li River's double bend- Return by the same route after viewing the scenery • Distance: Approximately 7km round trip (2-3 hours) • Elevation Gain: Approximately 200 meters • River Crossings: 2 This route is easy to complete and boasts a rich historical and cultural atmosphere, making it ideal for seniors seeking a light hike or those interested in Chinese history and culture. After crossing the river by ferry from Xingping Pier, follow the cement road along the river for approximately 2 kilometers to the foot of the Osmanthus Ancient Trail. Signposts will guide you along the way, so you don't have to worry about getting lost. Before climbing along the trail, you can take a detour to visit Tengjiao Temple, located at the foot of the Osmanthus Ancient Trail. Built in the Ming Dynasty, Tengjiao Temple is a Taoist brick and wood structure. Time has left its walls covered in mottled marks, bearing the silence of history. However, if you're not interested in history or old architecture, you can simply begin your ascent along the Osmanthus Ancient Trail. The Osmanthus Ancient Trail is an approximately 800-meter-long, bluestone-paved ancient trade route. Autumn is the best time for a hike, when the osmanthus flowers along the trail bloom in full blossom, creating a refreshing and enchanting atmosphere. Along the way, you'll find three breathtaking views where you can pause and admire the stunning Li River bend. If it's near sunset, you can add a further 3km hike to Damian Mountain to climb to the summit for a breathtaking view of the Li River bathed in orange glows. A Light Hike After Sunrise at Xianggong Mountain: Seamless Connected • Route Overview: Foot of Xianggong Mountain - Scenic Spot for Li River - Lengshui Village - Ferry to Mashan Pier - Xingping Ancient Town • Distance: Approximately 10 km (3-4 hours) • Elevation Gain: Approximately 200 meters • River Crossings: 1 • Note: This route involves some shared lanes for pedestrians and vehicles, making it somewhat hazardous. If watching the sunrise from Xianggong Mountain is a must-do on your itinerary, you might consider taking a light hike in the cool morning air afterward. While this route isn't particularly challenging, some of the trails involve shared paths with vehicles, which could be a bit dangerous. Pay close attention to passing vehicles and traffic conditions. Descend from the Xianggong Mountain ticket office and hike approximately 4 km along the road, passing through villages and small paths to reach Guilin's Jiatianxia scenic spot, where you can enjoy breathtaking views of the Li River. Then, hike approximately 2 km along the river to Lengshui Village, where you can continue your itinerary back to Xingping Ancient Town. Sunrise at Xianggong Mountain It is best to hike in Guilin during the spring (March-April) and autumn (October-November) seasons. During these months, Guilin experiences less rainfall and cooler weather, making them ideal for outdoor hikes. Spring offers a vibrant display of flowers, while autumn offers a golden harvest scenery. Hiking along the Li River in Guilin's winter (December-February) can be windy and cold, and sweating after long hikes can easily lead to a cold. The scenery isn't as stunning in winter, so it's not recommended for all but experienced hikers. Always pay attention to the weather forecast if you plan to hike during May to September, which is the rainy and typhoon season in Guilin. During this period, the rains are heavy and the shallows are quickly flooded by the Li River, not to mention landslides, mudslides, and other natural disasters are more likely to happen, especially during and after the three days following a rainy day. Contact us or simply hike with us to make sure all activities are on track for safety concerns. Our professional guide will help you with emergencies and keep you from taking the wrong turn. Tips Before Hiking Along the Li River Wear lightweight shoes and quick-drying clothing for hiking. For Li River hiking on cement and flagstone trails, comfortable sneakers (non-slip for hills) and quick-drying clothing are recommended. Avoid cotton, as it clings when wet and causes discomfort. Lightweight, quick-dry fabrics enhance comfort significantly. No need to pack too many supplies. The trails are well-established. Just bring some change with you for snacks/drinks in villages or along the road. If you get lost, use translation apps to ask locals for help, and they will be happy to point you in the right direction. Bring an umbrella or raincoat during the rainy season, and a hat and sunscreen on sunny days. You can also take a hiking pole with you to ward off snakes and insects if you encounter them. Travel with a local guide who speaks your language. Knowing the route and scenery, a professional local guide can help you avoid wrong paths, introduce you to famous sights, take memorable photos for you, and even assist with any emergencies. Contact us now to join us for an unforgettable Li River hike!