ID: 4744737fb7d6d72b
Title: 2-hour Walking Tour - Backside of Bustling Hong Kong
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/hongkong/hongkong-walking-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ Hong Kong has the most unaffordable real estate prices in the world. Do you know what exactly makes rents so expensive that the public can’t afford them? Can you imagine that a family of four living in a space less than 10 square meters in Hong Kong? This 2-hour experience will have a backdoor access to the secret places in Hong Kong, bring you in a real subdivided unit and cage house, and uncover the true side of Hong Kong life. Learn about the Hong Kong’s wealth disparities and housing crisis and witness the reality behind the city’s glamorous facade. Tour Highlights Expose the gap between rich and poor in Hong Kong by visiting cage houses and subdivided units. Get into unseen places and know the housing difficulties under high prices and small spaces. Find out why traditional markets remain relevant despite changes in Hong Kong's key industries. Sip local herbal tea while listening to our guide's own stories of tackling daily housing challenges. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 3:00 pm Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 3pm, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Prince Edward MTR Station Exit D (INSIDE the station) Address: 1 Playing Field Road, 1 Playing Field Rd, Prince Edward, Hong Kong Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 3:10 pm Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Portland Street and observe the architectural transformation from traditional four-story buildings to modern thirty-story skyscrapers, reflecting the evolution of housing in Hong Kong. The tour guide will share with you the housing prices in different areas of Hong Kong when passing by a real estate agency. As we all know, Hong Kong is a prosperous metropolis with stunning skylines that is one of the leading financial centers globally. Despite this, Hong Kong is still the most unaffordable city in the world for real estate. The soaring housing prices have led to a significant gap in wealth distribution among citizens, many residents are facing financial pressure. Then we will go up a very narrow staircase to enter a local unit on Cedar Street. Here we will experience first-hand the reality of living in a 10 square meter subdivided unit and the unimaginable cage house. A subdivided flat is commonly known as a "subdivided unit", which generally refers to the division of a unit on the original approved plan of a building into two or more independent rooms. The monthly rent for a subdivided flat of less than 10㎡ is around HK$ 4600-8000 (US$ 600 -1020). Even more extreme forms of housing than subdivided flats are the infamous "cage houses" of Hong Kong. Cage houses, also known as "bedspaces" or "cubicle apartments," are usually tiny, wire mesh cubicles stacked on top of each other within an apartment. Cage houses often lack basic amenities, and tenants usually have to share bathrooms and kitchens with many other residents. Renting such a cage house costs HK$1,500 -2800 (US$ 190-350) per month. After experiencing the life of people with houses, we will pass by Lai Chi Kok Road and Boundary Street, here you can see how homeless people live in local free parks. They would sleep on the floor or on a bench. Eking out a living during the day by picking up trash and cardboard. Have a break to sample a cup of local herbal tea while hearing our guide’s firsthand account of how to deal with everyday housing challenges in Hong Kong, as well as inspiring stories of people getting by in Hong Kong's tough housing market. You can also share with our group what the housing situation is like in your country. Continue walking to see the traditional markets in these areas. The markets are located at the entrance of the vegetable market or on the busy roadside. Locals will bring their unused items to sell and you can trade them for money or your other items. 5:00 pm Tour ends Our walking tour will finish at Sham Shui Po MTR Station around 5pm. You can go on your exploration of Kowloon area or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Know Before You Book Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Postcard designed and printed in Hong Kong, depicting the subdivided unit. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. Hong Kong has the most unaffordable real estate prices in the world. Do you know what exactly makes rents so expensive that the public can’t afford them? Can you imagine that a family of four living in a space less than 10 square meters in Hong Kong? This 2-hour experience will have a backdoor access to the secret places in Hong Kong, bring you in a real subdivided unit and cage house, and uncover the true side of Hong Kong life. Learn about the Hong Kong’s wealth disparities and housing crisis and witness the reality behind the city’s glamorous facade. Hong Kong has the most unaffordable real estate prices in the world. Do you know what exactly makes rents so expensive that the public can’t afford them? Can you imagine that a family of four living in a space less than 10 square meters in Hong Kong? This 2-hour experience will have a backdoor access to the secret places in Hong Kong, bring you in a real subdivided unit and cage house, and uncover the true side of Hong Kong life. Learn about the Hong Kong’s wealth disparities and housing crisis and witness the reality behind the city’s glamorous facade. Tour Highlights Expose the gap between rich and poor in Hong Kong by visiting cage houses and subdivided units. Get into unseen places and know the housing difficulties under high prices and small spaces. Find out why traditional markets remain relevant despite changes in Hong Kong's key industries. Sip local herbal tea while listening to our guide's own stories of tackling daily housing challenges. • Expose the gap between rich and poor in Hong Kong by visiting cage houses and subdivided units. • Get into unseen places and know the housing difficulties under high prices and small spaces. • Find out why traditional markets remain relevant despite changes in Hong Kong's key industries. • Sip local herbal tea while listening to our guide's own stories of tackling daily housing challenges. Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 3:00 pm Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 3pm, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Prince Edward MTR Station Exit D (INSIDE the station) Address: 1 Playing Field Road, 1 Playing Field Rd, Prince Edward, Hong Kong Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 3:10 pm Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Portland Street and observe the architectural transformation from traditional four-story buildings to modern thirty-story skyscrapers, reflecting the evolution of housing in Hong Kong. The tour guide will share with you the housing prices in different areas of Hong Kong when passing by a real estate agency. As we all know, Hong Kong is a prosperous metropolis with stunning skylines that is one of the leading financial centers globally. Despite this, Hong Kong is still the most unaffordable city in the world for real estate. The soaring housing prices have led to a significant gap in wealth distribution among citizens, many residents are facing financial pressure. Then we will go up a very narrow staircase to enter a local unit on Cedar Street. Here we will experience first-hand the reality of living in a 10 square meter subdivided unit and the unimaginable cage house. A subdivided flat is commonly known as a "subdivided unit", which generally refers to the division of a unit on the original approved plan of a building into two or more independent rooms. The monthly rent for a subdivided flat of less than 10㎡ is around HK$ 4600-8000 (US$ 600 -1020). Even more extreme forms of housing than subdivided flats are the infamous "cage houses" of Hong Kong. Cage houses, also known as "bedspaces" or "cubicle apartments," are usually tiny, wire mesh cubicles stacked on top of each other within an apartment. Cage houses often lack basic amenities, and tenants usually have to share bathrooms and kitchens with many other residents. Renting such a cage house costs HK$1,500 -2800 (US$ 190-350) per month. After experiencing the life of people with houses, we will pass by Lai Chi Kok Road and Boundary Street, here you can see how homeless people live in local free parks. They would sleep on the floor or on a bench. Eking out a living during the day by picking up trash and cardboard. Have a break to sample a cup of local herbal tea while hearing our guide’s firsthand account of how to deal with everyday housing challenges in Hong Kong, as well as inspiring stories of people getting by in Hong Kong's tough housing market. You can also share with our group what the housing situation is like in your country. Continue walking to see the traditional markets in these areas. The markets are located at the entrance of the vegetable market or on the busy roadside. Locals will bring their unused items to sell and you can trade them for money or your other items. 5:00 pm Tour ends Our walking tour will finish at Sham Shui Po MTR Station around 5pm. You can go on your exploration of Kowloon area or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Close All The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 3:00 pm Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 3pm, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Prince Edward MTR Station Exit D (INSIDE the station) Address: 1 Playing Field Road, 1 Playing Field Rd, Prince Edward, Hong Kong Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 3:10 pm Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Portland Street and observe the architectural transformation from traditional four-story buildings to modern thirty-story skyscrapers, reflecting the evolution of housing in Hong Kong. The tour guide will share with you the housing prices in different areas of Hong Kong when passing by a real estate agency. As we all know, Hong Kong is a prosperous metropolis with stunning skylines that is one of the leading financial centers globally. Despite this, Hong Kong is still the most unaffordable city in the world for real estate. The soaring housing prices have led to a significant gap in wealth distribution among citizens, many residents are facing financial pressure. Then we will go up a very narrow staircase to enter a local unit on Cedar Street. Here we will experience first-hand the reality of living in a 10 square meter subdivided unit and the unimaginable cage house. A subdivided flat is commonly known as a "subdivided unit", which generally refers to the division of a unit on the original approved plan of a building into two or more independent rooms. The monthly rent for a subdivided flat of less than 10㎡ is around HK$ 4600-8000 (US$ 600 -1020). Even more extreme forms of housing than subdivided flats are the infamous "cage houses" of Hong Kong. Cage houses, also known as "bedspaces" or "cubicle apartments," are usually tiny, wire mesh cubicles stacked on top of each other within an apartment. Cage houses often lack basic amenities, and tenants usually have to share bathrooms and kitchens with many other residents. Renting such a cage house costs HK$1,500 -2800 (US$ 190-350) per month. After experiencing the life of people with houses, we will pass by Lai Chi Kok Road and Boundary Street, here you can see how homeless people live in local free parks. They would sleep on the floor or on a bench. Eking out a living during the day by picking up trash and cardboard. Have a break to sample a cup of local herbal tea while hearing our guide’s firsthand account of how to deal with everyday housing challenges in Hong Kong, as well as inspiring stories of people getting by in Hong Kong's tough housing market. You can also share with our group what the housing situation is like in your country. Continue walking to see the traditional markets in these areas. The markets are located at the entrance of the vegetable market or on the busy roadside. Locals will bring their unused items to sell and you can trade them for money or your other items. 5:00 pm Tour ends Our walking tour will finish at Sham Shui Po MTR Station around 5pm. You can go on your exploration of Kowloon area or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The Day Before Your Trip The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. The tour guide will WhatsApp you or call your hotel room the day before the trip starts. He will double confirm the meeting time and meeting point with you. Please leave your WhatsApp information when make the booking. You can WhatsApp me at +86-18807734970 in case you need to reach us. 3:00 pm Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 3pm, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Prince Edward MTR Station Exit D (INSIDE the station) Address: 1 Playing Field Road, 1 Playing Field Rd, Prince Edward, Hong Kong Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 3:00 pm Meet your guide Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 3pm, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. Meeting Point: Prince Edward MTR Station Exit D (INSIDE the station) Address: 1 Playing Field Road, 1 Playing Field Rd, Prince Edward, Hong Kong Important Note: Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) Our tour guide waits for you at the meeting point and the tour starts at 3pm, please arrive the meeting point on time by yourself. • Meeting Point: Prince Edward MTR Station Exit D (INSIDE the station) • Address: 1 Playing Field Road, 1 Playing Field Rd, Prince Edward, Hong Kong • Please make sure to be punctual or early arrival. If for some reasons you are late, please call your tour guide immediately for help. Meeting Point (Pic from Google Map) 3:10 pm Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Portland Street and observe the architectural transformation from traditional four-story buildings to modern thirty-story skyscrapers, reflecting the evolution of housing in Hong Kong. The tour guide will share with you the housing prices in different areas of Hong Kong when passing by a real estate agency. As we all know, Hong Kong is a prosperous metropolis with stunning skylines that is one of the leading financial centers globally. Despite this, Hong Kong is still the most unaffordable city in the world for real estate. The soaring housing prices have led to a significant gap in wealth distribution among citizens, many residents are facing financial pressure. Then we will go up a very narrow staircase to enter a local unit on Cedar Street. Here we will experience first-hand the reality of living in a 10 square meter subdivided unit and the unimaginable cage house. A subdivided flat is commonly known as a "subdivided unit", which generally refers to the division of a unit on the original approved plan of a building into two or more independent rooms. The monthly rent for a subdivided flat of less than 10㎡ is around HK$ 4600-8000 (US$ 600 -1020). Even more extreme forms of housing than subdivided flats are the infamous "cage houses" of Hong Kong. Cage houses, also known as "bedspaces" or "cubicle apartments," are usually tiny, wire mesh cubicles stacked on top of each other within an apartment. Cage houses often lack basic amenities, and tenants usually have to share bathrooms and kitchens with many other residents. Renting such a cage house costs HK$1,500 -2800 (US$ 190-350) per month. After experiencing the life of people with houses, we will pass by Lai Chi Kok Road and Boundary Street, here you can see how homeless people live in local free parks. They would sleep on the floor or on a bench. Eking out a living during the day by picking up trash and cardboard. Have a break to sample a cup of local herbal tea while hearing our guide’s firsthand account of how to deal with everyday housing challenges in Hong Kong, as well as inspiring stories of people getting by in Hong Kong's tough housing market. You can also share with our group what the housing situation is like in your country. Continue walking to see the traditional markets in these areas. The markets are located at the entrance of the vegetable market or on the busy roadside. Locals will bring their unused items to sell and you can trade them for money or your other items. 3:10 pm Start our walking tour Firstly, we will walk through Portland Street and observe the architectural transformation from traditional four-story buildings to modern thirty-story skyscrapers, reflecting the evolution of housing in Hong Kong. The tour guide will share with you the housing prices in different areas of Hong Kong when passing by a real estate agency. As we all know, Hong Kong is a prosperous metropolis with stunning skylines that is one of the leading financial centers globally. Despite this, Hong Kong is still the most unaffordable city in the world for real estate. The soaring housing prices have led to a significant gap in wealth distribution among citizens, many residents are facing financial pressure. Then we will go up a very narrow staircase to enter a local unit on Cedar Street. Here we will experience first-hand the reality of living in a 10 square meter subdivided unit and the unimaginable cage house. A subdivided flat is commonly known as a "subdivided unit", which generally refers to the division of a unit on the original approved plan of a building into two or more independent rooms. The monthly rent for a subdivided flat of less than 10㎡ is around HK$ 4600-8000 (US$ 600 -1020). Even more extreme forms of housing than subdivided flats are the infamous "cage houses" of Hong Kong. Cage houses, also known as "bedspaces" or "cubicle apartments," are usually tiny, wire mesh cubicles stacked on top of each other within an apartment. Cage houses often lack basic amenities, and tenants usually have to share bathrooms and kitchens with many other residents. Renting such a cage house costs HK$1,500 -2800 (US$ 190-350) per month. After experiencing the life of people with houses, we will pass by Lai Chi Kok Road and Boundary Street, here you can see how homeless people live in local free parks. They would sleep on the floor or on a bench. Eking out a living during the day by picking up trash and cardboard. Have a break to sample a cup of local herbal tea while hearing our guide’s firsthand account of how to deal with everyday housing challenges in Hong Kong, as well as inspiring stories of people getting by in Hong Kong's tough housing market. You can also share with our group what the housing situation is like in your country. Continue walking to see the traditional markets in these areas. The markets are located at the entrance of the vegetable market or on the busy roadside. Locals will bring their unused items to sell and you can trade them for money or your other items. Firstly, we will walk through Portland Street and observe the architectural transformation from traditional four-story buildings to modern thirty-story skyscrapers, reflecting the evolution of housing in Hong Kong. The tour guide will share with you the housing prices in different areas of Hong Kong when passing by a real estate agency. As we all know, Hong Kong is a prosperous metropolis with stunning skylines that is one of the leading financial centers globally. Despite this, Hong Kong is still the most unaffordable city in the world for real estate. The soaring housing prices have led to a significant gap in wealth distribution among citizens, many residents are facing financial pressure. Then we will go up a very narrow staircase to enter a local unit on Cedar Street. Here we will experience first-hand the reality of living in a 10 square meter subdivided unit and the unimaginable cage house. A subdivided flat is commonly known as a "subdivided unit", which generally refers to the division of a unit on the original approved plan of a building into two or more independent rooms. The monthly rent for a subdivided flat of less than 10㎡ is around HK$ 4600-8000 (US$ 600 -1020). Even more extreme forms of housing than subdivided flats are the infamous "cage houses" of Hong Kong. Cage houses, also known as "bedspaces" or "cubicle apartments," are usually tiny, wire mesh cubicles stacked on top of each other within an apartment. Cage houses often lack basic amenities, and tenants usually have to share bathrooms and kitchens with many other residents. Renting such a cage house costs HK$1,500 -2800 (US$ 190-350) per month. After experiencing the life of people with houses, we will pass by Lai Chi Kok Road and Boundary Street, here you can see how homeless people live in local free parks. They would sleep on the floor or on a bench. Eking out a living during the day by picking up trash and cardboard. Have a break to sample a cup of local herbal tea while hearing our guide’s firsthand account of how to deal with everyday housing challenges in Hong Kong, as well as inspiring stories of people getting by in Hong Kong's tough housing market. You can also share with our group what the housing situation is like in your country. Continue walking to see the traditional markets in these areas. The markets are located at the entrance of the vegetable market or on the busy roadside. Locals will bring their unused items to sell and you can trade them for money or your other items. 5:00 pm Tour ends Our walking tour will finish at Sham Shui Po MTR Station around 5pm. You can go on your exploration of Kowloon area or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Our walking tour will finish at Sham Shui Po MTR Station around 5pm. You can go on your exploration of Kowloon area or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Our walking tour will finish at Sham Shui Po MTR Station around 5pm. You can go on your exploration of Kowloon area or return to your hotel by MTR. You may follow us on our Facebook page to see our latest updates, photos and posts at: Trippest @ Facebook Know Before You Book Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Postcard designed and printed in Hong Kong, depicting the subdivided unit. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Postcard designed and printed in Hong Kong, depicting the subdivided unit. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. Price Include: Professional English-speaking local guide. Postcard designed and printed in Hong Kong, depicting the subdivided unit. Price Exclude: Hotel pickup and drop-off. Personal expenses. • Professional English-speaking local guide. • Postcard designed and printed in Hong Kong, depicting the subdivided unit. • Hotel pickup and drop-off. • Personal expenses. FAQs About This Tour What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? Cancellation Fee Up to 7 days before departure 0 From 3 to 7 days before departure 20% Within 3 days before departure 100% For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For last-minute booking, please WhatsApp us at: +86-18807734970 to check the availability or email us at: inquiry@trippest.com. For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 45 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 45 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 45 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20