ID: 740ac5da793633b5
Title: Hong Kong Christimas Shopping - Best Things to Buy and Where
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/hong-kong/christmas-shopping.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

As an Asian shopping mecca and as one of the world's centers for Christmas festivities, Hong Kong has advantage for Christmas shopping. You'll find some of the world's best Christmas displays and seasonal decorations and get deals on items ranging from Christmas gifts, to decorations, to electronics. Hong Kong is the natural place to go for enjoyable Christmas shopping. It is a place to go to find deals. The generally mild and sunny weather is an attraction for people wishing to escape frigid, dreary northern climes. The electronics, toys, and fashion markets are particularly excellent. It is considered the world's freest economy and has low taxes that give you advantages for low prices and wide selection. Where is There a Better Place to Go ? CNN named Hong Kong's WinterFest (December 4, 2015 – January 1, 2016) as one of the top 10 places in the whole world to spend Christmas. Below are our suggestions for the best places to go shopping during Christmas in Hong Kong. See our luxury, middle price, and bargain ideas. Luxury Christmas Shopping The IFC Mall houses a large Apple store and Bose and Oregon Scientific for sophisticated electronics products. For fashion, there are Lane Crawford, ZARA, and Burberry and many others. There are famed jewelers such as Chopard, CARAT, Pandora, and BVLGARI. The Landmark Mall and boutique area for high fashion is about 200 meters southeast via the Central Station underpass. The cluster of shops includes the interlinked Prince's Building for Chanel, a. testoni, Cartier, and Ralph Lauren. Alexandra House has Prada and Dolce & Gabbana. Chater House closest to the IFC has Armani shops. The IFC Towers complex houses the "6-star" Four Seasons Hotel with the best Michelen 3-star Cantonese restaurant in the region. There is also Caprice that is one of the best French restaurants. They are above the IFC Mall. You can watch the evening light show from the windows while dining. Middle-Price Christmas Shopping Clothing, Shoes, Sports Clothes and Electronics Go to CityGate Outlets for savings on a wide selection of brand name products. The mall is across from Hong Kong International Airport. Most of the 80 or so brand name stores sell clothing, shoes, and sports clothes. These are quality goods, not factory rejects. Their claim is that prices are 30 to 70 percent below regular prices. You'll see Chinese with suitcases buying products in quantity to take back to China. There are for example: Bally, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Giordano, Adidas, Nike, Puma, and Esprit. There is also a Fortress for electronics, but it isn't a discount store. • Open: generally between 11 am and 10 pm. • Transport: Take the MTR to Tung Chung Station. Transfer at Lai King Station. The location of the mall 5 minutes from the airport makes it convenient for tourists. The Food Republic food court at the mall has stalls that provide a variety of international cuisine at prices around 50 to 100 HKD (6.50 to 13 USD). There are a variety of other restaurants there too. There is a large Toys R Us in Harbour City Mall next to the TST Star Ferry at Victoria Harbor. Children generally like the ferry ride. Toys R Us is a large toy supermarket with the latest toys and gadgets that kids like. Harbour City is HK's largest mall. It is considered more of a middle-price mall with 450 shops, 50 restaurants, 3 hotels, and 2 movie theaters. • Extended shopping hours from December 1 to December 26, 2012. • Christmas Display: There is a large "Love is All Around" Christmas display featuring a carousel and a charity picture taking spot. Unfortunately, unlike in other countries, there aren't pre-Christmas sales with lower prices to attract shoppers. Prices actually go up. However, the malls try to attract customers through special Christmas displays, decorations, and entertainment. The main shopping streets are places to find bargains to compete on prices. The best places for bargain shopping are Temple Street, Sham Shui Po, Ladies Market and adjacent streets in Mong Kok. These areas of shopping streets in Kowloon are probably the best places for the average tourist because transportation to them and between them is quite easy, and the selection is great. • Transport: Next to Jordan Station, Mongkok Station and Sham Shui Po Station respectively, they are a few minutes apart on Bus 7 or the MTR. • Tip: You can get free maps, shopping guides, tourist guides, coupons and information about promotions at the Tourism Board offices at the TST Star Ferry at Victoria Harbor and on Victoria Peak. Temple Street for Souvenirs, Small Gifts, Cheap Clothes, and Knick Knacks Temple Street, a Hong Kong shopping highlight, is a good place to shop for souvenirs in the evening and enjoy dinner. You can browse through a plethora of items ranging from inexpensive Chinese clothes to watches, children's clothing, and accessories. • Open hours: The street stalls begin to open about 2 or 3 pm depending on the weather, and they close about 11 pm. • Transport: It is a few minutes walk from Jordan MTR Station. • Dinner: Enjoy a meal on the street. The Chinese food is average quality, and you'll probably have a memorable time. The Ladies Market Area for Electronics, Clothing, Jewelry, Pets, Flowers, and Christmas Trees The streets of the Ladies Market area between Mongkok Station and Prince Edward Station offer a wide variety of products at low prices. Expect crowds, small stores, outdoor stalls, and street snacks. Many stores will not give refunds, so check the products carefully for defects. Sai Yeung Choi Street at Exit D2 of Mong Kok Station is known for cameras, lenses, computer devices, computers, and electronics. The main Ladies Market street is the next street to the west called Tung Choi Street. There are bargains on Chinese factory outlet clothing, accessories and factory rejects. You'll see brand names such as Giordano, Bossini, and Baleno. Carefully check the articles Fa Yuen Street is fifty meters further west with bargains on sports clothing, brand names and the latest fashion if you are prepared to search and examine carefully. Most shops only take cash, won't make exchanges, and don't provide fitting rooms. Flower Market Street is about 300 meters east of Prince Edward Station. You find real live Christmas trees and about a hundred flower shops. It is off of Sai Yee Street parallel to Prince Edward Road. Sham Shui Po for Wholesale Christmas Toys and Decorations, Electronics, Computer Devices, and Party Articles Computers and electronics: The best computer and accessories deals you will generally find in Hong Kong are in Sham Shui Po. It is also where you can find repair shops for computer repairs and second-hand products. Beware of stolen goods and fake products though. Golden Computer Center is a large electronics market for electronics bargains. Everything from blank CDs to entire computers. It is internationally famous and crowded. It is about 100 meters north of Sham Shui Po MTR Exit D2. Wholesale Christmas decorations and toys: Besides its electronics market, what makes Sham Shui Po famous are its stores that specialize in Christmas decorations and wholesale children's toys. If you want to buy in big lots for a Christmas party for example, this is the place to go in HK. Fuk Wing Street about 100 meters north of Exit B2 is a treasure trove for Christmas stuff such as fake trees, tinsel, decorations and party articles. The area around Nam Cheong Street about 200 meters west has dozens of clothing stores and tiny shops that sell cheap kids clothing and jewelry. It is said that for Christmas decorations, you can't beat the prices in Sham Shui Po. • Tip: The stores are not designed for retail shoppers, so you'll have to rummage around and try to get the busy shopkeepers' attention. • Transport: Sham Shui Po MTR. • Hours: Most shops open about 11 am. China Highlights' Tours During Christmas Tour Hong Kong with China Highlights For your Christmas holidays, we can arrange a fine Christmas tour for you. Our tours are developed through years of experience and customer feedback and are reasonably priced. They can be customized to your requirements. You can contact us for help. See more Hong Kong tour packages. Let us help you plan a personalized Hong Kong tour. Christmas Season Travel Information Tour Hong Kong with China Highlights Low Season: The last half of December is an excellent time for touring in Hong Kong. The busy crowds of Chinese tourists don't arrive until Chinese New Year, and many foreigners visit during their Christmas and New Year holidays. • International Hong Kong flight tickets are more difficult to obtain right around Christmas and New Years Day. • Guides, drivers, and private vehicles can be provided for great private tours for individuals and groups. You can book Hong Kong hotel rooms through us. • China train tickets you need for a great trip to China.