ID: a5b764c059be203
Title: Dali Tours — Refreshing Views and Authentic Bai Culture
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/dali/tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

In Dali, a beautiful place just below the eastern "eave" of the Tibetan Plateau, the hefty Cang Mountain range and extensive Erhai Lake have created a wonderful homeland for the Bai ethnic minority. People come for its reputed "wind, flowers, snow, and moon", for its idyllic scenery, and for its hidden villages and towns that tell their stories of the ancient Tea Horse Road. Dali is also a great place for some moderate outdoor activities such as hiking and biking. How to Plan Your Dali Tour? Click to know more. The Best Times to Visit Dali Generally speaking, Dali is a destination for visiting all year round. The Cangshan mountains and Erhai Lake are especially beautiful in spring and summer when flowers are in full bloom. In autumn, the yellow rice fields, the red fir trees, and the blue of Erhai Lake form a romantic oil painting. In winter, the warm sunshine is the reason that many people flee to Dali from colder climes. Getting to Dali Dali is connected with China's main cities — Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Kunming... — by direct flights. The bullet trains are also recommended if you travel from Kunming to Dali. From Lijiang, it is best to get to Dali by car (and vice versa). How Long to Stay Dali is between Kunming and Lijiang. If it is one of a few destinations on your Yunnan tour, normally we suggest 3 days to enjoy its highlights. If you would like to focus on the Dali area for a short break or an in-depth exploration, 4 or 5 days is perfect. No matter what you expect from your experiences in Dali, we are happy to help you enjoy the things that attract you most, and also show you beauties you never expected. Top Recommended Dali Tour and Tours from Dali Our suggested itineraries for a Dali tour are linked below to give you some inspiration no matter whether you want a super weekend trip or would like to combine Dali with other destinations. Please feel free to contact us if you would like to customize any of them. Dynamic Dali 4-Day Dali Tour Hike on the Cangshan mountains Bike along Erhai Lake View more The Past Prosperity of Dali 4-Day Dali and Tea Horse Road Experience Tour View more A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour View more Yunnan Tours including Dali Here are the recommended Yunnan tours including Dali. We are happy to combine any other destinations with Dali according to your interests to create your Yunnan trip. Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Mountains and Old Towns Ethnic Minorities View more Yunnan Ethnic Minorities Tour 6-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Tour View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us Other Popular Destinations in Yunnan Here are the other popular cities for a Yunnan tour. Click to get more information about each destination and tours KunmingStone Forest.Dianchi Lake Lijiang Ancient Towns.Snow Mountains Shangri-La Songanlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery Dali Travel Tips Expand All 1. Dali Weather Dali in May Located on a high plateau (about 2,000 meters above sea level), Dali has a subtropical highland monsoon climate. The Cangshan mountain massif diverts the flow of warm moist air from the southwest, leaving Dali with lots of sunshine and fresh air. It has a relatively temperate climate all year round, with no extremes in summer or in winter. The temperature ranges from 18°C (64°F) to 25°C (77°F) in summer and from 4°C (39°F) to 17°C (62°F) in winter on average. The daily temperature variation tends to be greater than the seasonal variation in temperature, which calls for layered clothing, or jackets and sweaters early in the morning and again during the evening. Most of the rainfall occurs from June to October. Read more 2. Top Things to Do in Dali Have a bike ride to see the Cangshan and the Erhai Lake The Cangshan mountains and Erhai Lake are the top must-explores for a Dali tour. If you prefer some exercise with your sightseeing, you can hike on Cangshan Mountain and bike along Erhai Lake. You will get beautiful views as you explore. A boat ride on Erhai Lake is not so recommended for those who would like to get away from the tourist crowds. Taking a horse-drawn carriage along the lakeshore of Erhai could be an enjoyable and relaxing option though, ideal for those traveling with young children. If you are interested in the culture of the Bai ethnic minority, the villages near Dali Ancient City, such as Xizhou and Zhoucheng, are recommended. Zhoucheng is less touristy and you will be impressed by the Bai architecture, traditional dress, and tie-dyeing. The rice fields near Xizhou is a charming view. Read more 3. Where to Stay in Dali A hotel with the lake view Normally, we suggest hotels in Dali Ancient City. They are convenient for you to tour the ancient city and easiest for arranging a tour to the attractions nearby. If you are a traveler who wants a peaceful atmosphere and would like to get close to the local ethnic life, you could choose a hotel in Xizhou. For those who want to have romantic and quiet atmosphere, staying in a small boutique hotel on the east side of Erhai Lake is a great option. Shuanglang and Wase are two small villages on the east of Erhai, where you can find a lot of hotels with the great mountain and lake views. Wasa is less touristy, but Shuanglang is more convenient for eating out. Both villages need about 1 hour by car from Dali Ancient Town. Read more In Dali, a beautiful place just below the eastern "eave" of the Tibetan Plateau, the hefty Cang Mountain range and extensive Erhai Lake have created a wonderful homeland for the Bai ethnic minority. People come for its reputed "wind, flowers, snow, and moon", for its idyllic scenery, and for its hidden villages and towns that tell their stories of the ancient Tea Horse Road. Dali is also a great place for some moderate outdoor activities such as hiking and biking. How to Plan Your Dali Tour? Click to know more. The Best Times to Visit Dali Generally speaking, Dali is a destination for visiting all year round. The Cangshan mountains and Erhai Lake are especially beautiful in spring and summer when flowers are in full bloom. In autumn, the yellow rice fields, the red fir trees, and the blue of Erhai Lake form a romantic oil painting. In winter, the warm sunshine is the reason that many people flee to Dali from colder climes. Getting to Dali Dali is connected with China's main cities — Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Kunming... — by direct flights. The bullet trains are also recommended if you travel from Kunming to Dali. From Lijiang, it is best to get to Dali by car (and vice versa). How Long to Stay Dali is between Kunming and Lijiang. If it is one of a few destinations on your Yunnan tour, normally we suggest 3 days to enjoy its highlights. If you would like to focus on the Dali area for a short break or an in-depth exploration, 4 or 5 days is perfect. How to Plan Your Dali Tour? Click to know more. The Best Times to Visit Dali Generally speaking, Dali is a destination for visiting all year round. The Cangshan mountains and Erhai Lake are especially beautiful in spring and summer when flowers are in full bloom. In autumn, the yellow rice fields, the red fir trees, and the blue of Erhai Lake form a romantic oil painting. In winter, the warm sunshine is the reason that many people flee to Dali from colder climes. Getting to Dali Dali is connected with China's main cities — Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Kunming... — by direct flights. The bullet trains are also recommended if you travel from Kunming to Dali. From Lijiang, it is best to get to Dali by car (and vice versa). How Long to Stay Dali is between Kunming and Lijiang. If it is one of a few destinations on your Yunnan tour, normally we suggest 3 days to enjoy its highlights. If you would like to focus on the Dali area for a short break or an in-depth exploration, 4 or 5 days is perfect. • The Best Times to Visit Dali Generally speaking, Dali is a destination for visiting all year round. The Cangshan mountains and Erhai Lake are especially beautiful in spring and summer when flowers are in full bloom. In autumn, the yellow rice fields, the red fir trees, and the blue of Erhai Lake form a romantic oil painting. In winter, the warm sunshine is the reason that many people flee to Dali from colder climes. • Getting to Dali Dali is connected with China's main cities — Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Kunming... — by direct flights. The bullet trains are also recommended if you travel from Kunming to Dali. From Lijiang, it is best to get to Dali by car (and vice versa). • How Long to Stay Dali is between Kunming and Lijiang. If it is one of a few destinations on your Yunnan tour, normally we suggest 3 days to enjoy its highlights. If you would like to focus on the Dali area for a short break or an in-depth exploration, 4 or 5 days is perfect. No matter what you expect from your experiences in Dali, we are happy to help you enjoy the things that attract you most, and also show you beauties you never expected. Top Recommended Dali Tour and Tours from Dali Our suggested itineraries for a Dali tour are linked below to give you some inspiration no matter whether you want a super weekend trip or would like to combine Dali with other destinations. Please feel free to contact us if you would like to customize any of them. Dynamic Dali 4-Day Dali Tour Hike on the Cangshan mountains Bike along Erhai Lake View more Dynamic Dali 4-Day Dali Tour Hike on the Cangshan mountains Bike along Erhai Lake View more • Hike on the Cangshan mountains • Bike along Erhai Lake The Past Prosperity of Dali 4-Day Dali and Tea Horse Road Experience Tour View more The Past Prosperity of Dali 4-Day Dali and Tea Horse Road Experience Tour View more A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour View more A Feast of Landscapes and Ethnic Minority Culture 7-Day Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour View more Yunnan Tours including Dali Here are the recommended Yunnan tours including Dali. We are happy to combine any other destinations with Dali according to your interests to create your Yunnan trip. Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Mountains and Old Towns Ethnic Minorities View more Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tour Mountains and Old Towns Ethnic Minorities View more • Mountains and Old Towns • Ethnic Minorities Yunnan Ethnic Minorities Tour 6-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Tour View more Yunnan Ethnic Minorities Tour 6-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Tour View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Other Popular Destinations in Yunnan Here are the other popular cities for a Yunnan tour. Click to get more information about each destination and tours KunmingStone Forest.Dianchi Lake Lijiang Ancient Towns.Snow Mountains Shangri-La Songanlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery KunmingStone Forest.Dianchi Lake Lijiang Ancient Towns.Snow Mountains Shangri-La Songanlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery Expand All 1. Dali Weather Dali in May Located on a high plateau (about 2,000 meters above sea level), Dali has a subtropical highland monsoon climate. The Cangshan mountain massif diverts the flow of warm moist air from the southwest, leaving Dali with lots of sunshine and fresh air. It has a relatively temperate climate all year round, with no extremes in summer or in winter. The temperature ranges from 18°C (64°F) to 25°C (77°F) in summer and from 4°C (39°F) to 17°C (62°F) in winter on average. The daily temperature variation tends to be greater than the seasonal variation in temperature, which calls for layered clothing, or jackets and sweaters early in the morning and again during the evening. Most of the rainfall occurs from June to October. Read more 2. Top Things to Do in Dali Have a bike ride to see the Cangshan and the Erhai Lake The Cangshan mountains and Erhai Lake are the top must-explores for a Dali tour. If you prefer some exercise with your sightseeing, you can hike on Cangshan Mountain and bike along Erhai Lake. You will get beautiful views as you explore. A boat ride on Erhai Lake is not so recommended for those who would like to get away from the tourist crowds. Taking a horse-drawn carriage along the lakeshore of Erhai could be an enjoyable and relaxing option though, ideal for those traveling with young children. If you are interested in the culture of the Bai ethnic minority, the villages near Dali Ancient City, such as Xizhou and Zhoucheng, are recommended. Zhoucheng is less touristy and you will be impressed by the Bai architecture, traditional dress, and tie-dyeing. The rice fields near Xizhou is a charming view. Read more 3. Where to Stay in Dali A hotel with the lake view Normally, we suggest hotels in Dali Ancient City. They are convenient for you to tour the ancient city and easiest for arranging a tour to the attractions nearby. If you are a traveler who wants a peaceful atmosphere and would like to get close to the local ethnic life, you could choose a hotel in Xizhou. For those who want to have romantic and quiet atmosphere, staying in a small boutique hotel on the east side of Erhai Lake is a great option. Shuanglang and Wase are two small villages on the east of Erhai, where you can find a lot of hotels with the great mountain and lake views. Wasa is less touristy, but Shuanglang is more convenient for eating out. Both villages need about 1 hour by car from Dali Ancient Town. Read more Dali in May Located on a high plateau (about 2,000 meters above sea level), Dali has a subtropical highland monsoon climate. The Cangshan mountain massif diverts the flow of warm moist air from the southwest, leaving Dali with lots of sunshine and fresh air. It has a relatively temperate climate all year round, with no extremes in summer or in winter. The temperature ranges from 18°C (64°F) to 25°C (77°F) in summer and from 4°C (39°F) to 17°C (62°F) in winter on average. The daily temperature variation tends to be greater than the seasonal variation in temperature, which calls for layered clothing, or jackets and sweaters early in the morning and again during the evening. Most of the rainfall occurs from June to October. Read more Located on a high plateau (about 2,000 meters above sea level), Dali has a subtropical highland monsoon climate. The Cangshan mountain massif diverts the flow of warm moist air from the southwest, leaving Dali with lots of sunshine and fresh air. It has a relatively temperate climate all year round, with no extremes in summer or in winter. The temperature ranges from 18°C (64°F) to 25°C (77°F) in summer and from 4°C (39°F) to 17°C (62°F) in winter on average. The daily temperature variation tends to be greater than the seasonal variation in temperature, which calls for layered clothing, or jackets and sweaters early in the morning and again during the evening. Most of the rainfall occurs from June to October. Read more 2. Top Things to Do in Dali Have a bike ride to see the Cangshan and the Erhai Lake The Cangshan mountains and Erhai Lake are the top must-explores for a Dali tour. If you prefer some exercise with your sightseeing, you can hike on Cangshan Mountain and bike along Erhai Lake. You will get beautiful views as you explore. A boat ride on Erhai Lake is not so recommended for those who would like to get away from the tourist crowds. Taking a horse-drawn carriage along the lakeshore of Erhai could be an enjoyable and relaxing option though, ideal for those traveling with young children. If you are interested in the culture of the Bai ethnic minority, the villages near Dali Ancient City, such as Xizhou and Zhoucheng, are recommended. Zhoucheng is less touristy and you will be impressed by the Bai architecture, traditional dress, and tie-dyeing. The rice fields near Xizhou is a charming view. Read more Have a bike ride to see the Cangshan and the Erhai Lake The Cangshan mountains and Erhai Lake are the top must-explores for a Dali tour. If you prefer some exercise with your sightseeing, you can hike on Cangshan Mountain and bike along Erhai Lake. You will get beautiful views as you explore. A boat ride on Erhai Lake is not so recommended for those who would like to get away from the tourist crowds. Taking a horse-drawn carriage along the lakeshore of Erhai could be an enjoyable and relaxing option though, ideal for those traveling with young children. If you are interested in the culture of the Bai ethnic minority, the villages near Dali Ancient City, such as Xizhou and Zhoucheng, are recommended. Zhoucheng is less touristy and you will be impressed by the Bai architecture, traditional dress, and tie-dyeing. The rice fields near Xizhou is a charming view. Read more 3. Where to Stay in Dali A hotel with the lake view Normally, we suggest hotels in Dali Ancient City. They are convenient for you to tour the ancient city and easiest for arranging a tour to the attractions nearby. If you are a traveler who wants a peaceful atmosphere and would like to get close to the local ethnic life, you could choose a hotel in Xizhou. For those who want to have romantic and quiet atmosphere, staying in a small boutique hotel on the east side of Erhai Lake is a great option. Shuanglang and Wase are two small villages on the east of Erhai, where you can find a lot of hotels with the great mountain and lake views. Wasa is less touristy, but Shuanglang is more convenient for eating out. Both villages need about 1 hour by car from Dali Ancient Town. Read more A hotel with the lake view Normally, we suggest hotels in Dali Ancient City. They are convenient for you to tour the ancient city and easiest for arranging a tour to the attractions nearby. If you are a traveler who wants a peaceful atmosphere and would like to get close to the local ethnic life, you could choose a hotel in Xizhou. For those who want to have romantic and quiet atmosphere, staying in a small boutique hotel on the east side of Erhai Lake is a great option. Shuanglang and Wase are two small villages on the east of Erhai, where you can find a lot of hotels with the great mountain and lake views. Wasa is less touristy, but Shuanglang is more convenient for eating out. Both villages need about 1 hour by car from Dali Ancient Town. Read more