ID: eea07f88c43b88a
Title: Tibet Treks: Tibet Trekking Routes and Hiking Guide
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/china-hiking/tibet-hiking.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Tibet is a land full of adventure. There are a lot of places for hiking on the "roof of the world" and most areas are best suited to a multiday trek. We have listed below some of the most popular hiking routes in Tibet based on our customers' feedback. However, not everyone is suited to hiking in Tibet, mainly because of the low-oxygen altitudes, but also the mountainous terrain and potentially harsh weather conditions. Only those who are fit and well-prepared are encouraged to set out on the following treks. • Top 6 Popular HikingRoutes in Tibet • Best Times for Trekking in Tibet • Avoiding Altitude Sickness When Trekking • Things You Should Know before Trekking in Tibet • Hiking Tips The Top 6 Popular HikingRoutes in Tibet This well-received variety of five treks and one day hike rangefrom "easy" to "very hard".The following are brief descriptions of each difficulty level. Difficulty Level Easy Moderate Hard Very hard Hours/Day 4–5 5–6 7 8 Max Altitude (m) 3,200 4,500 5,000 5,000+ Max Altitude (ft) 10,500 14,800 16,400 16,400+ Suitable for Beginners Less-experienced trekkers Experienced trekkers Fearless adventurer 1. Pabongka Monastery to Sera Monastery Hike • Min. duration: 6 hours • Max. altitude:4,200 m (13,800 ft). • Difficulty: moderate • Start/finish: Pabongka Monastery to Sera Monastery in Lhasa • Accommodation:hotel in Lhasa • Perfect for:regular hikers, travelers with a short stay in Tibet This is a hidden route, which is seldom seen by travelers. The hike starts from Pabongka Monastery, which is located on a mountain in the northern suburbs of Lhasa. This old and small monastery (hermitage) is on a huge rock and has a longer history than the Potala Palace. Along the way, you will also pass small monasteries like TashiCholing Hermitage, Takten Nunnery, and Sera Utse. They are not as fancy as the famous monasteries of Tibet, but you can feel the history and mystery of Tibetan Buddhism from them. The magnificent bird's-eye view of Lhasa city is another highlight during this hike. You will end the hike at Sera Monastery where you can see the interesting activity of monks' debating — a discussion of Buddhist knowledge between monks. Recommended Tibet Tours: • 4-Days Lhasa Highlights Comfort Tour • 5-Days Lhasa Classics and Lake Yamdrok Tour 2. Galie Village to Nomads' Pasture Trek • Min. duration:2 days • Max. altitude:3,200m (10,498 ft) • Difficulty: easy • Start/finish: GalieVillage (150km from Lhasa) • Accommodation: Camping • Perfect for: Casual trekkers who like camping, those who want to avoid high-altitude hiking Galie Village is a beautiful Tibetan nomad village that has never been touched by development. It's in a valley 150 km (90 miles) from Lhasa. A tributary of the Lhasa River flows across the village and nourishes the vegetation in the valley. Local people make their living by growing barley and raising yaks. You'll need a 4-hour drive to get from Lhasa to Galie village. Starting from the village, you will hike about 2 hours to a pasture to visit a Tibetan nomadic family. In the evening, you will cook and enjoy dinner with the local Tibetan family together. Sleep in your tent right by the nomad's tent. Day 1: Lhasa – Galie Village –nomads'pasture. Stay with a Tibetan nomad family. Day 2: Pasture –Galie Village – Lhasa. Take part in the work of the local Tibetan nomads. Recommended Tibet Tours: • 7-Day Tibet Tour including Trekking and Camping 3. Ganden Monastery to Samye Monastery Trek • Min. duration:4days • Max. altitude:5,200m (17,000 ft) • Difficulty: Moderate to hard • Start/finish: Ganden Monastery / Samye Monastery • Accommodation: Camping • Perfect for Trekkers like camping and regardless of the high elevation Hiking from Ganden Monastery to Samye Monastery is one of the most popular adventure trips in Tibet. The trail was created by local pilgrims. It covers a distance of 80 kilometers(50 miles). The daily walking distance is about 15km (9 miles) taking5–6 hours. Most of the route's altitude is around 4,000 meters (13,000 feet) above sea level. You will spend four nights in a tent with one night at a spot over 4,700 meters (15,400 feet). Along the way, Shug-La Pass and Chitu-La Pass are the highest points, which are over 5,200 meters (17,000 feet) above sea level. The scenery on the way includes lakes, snow-capped mountains, alpine forests, and meadows, as well as Buddhist monasteries, such as Gandan Monastery —one of the three principal Gelugpa monasteries and Samye Monastery — the first Buddhist monastery in Tibet. Suggested itinerary (an extra 2/3 days for Lhasa acclimatization and return travel are recommended) Day 1: Drive from Lhasa to Ganden Monastery to Tsubshi Village — 55km (34 miles) Day 2: Trek from Tsubshi Village to Yama-Do — 7 km (4 miles) Day 3: Trek from Yama-Do to Tsotup Chu — 10 km (6 miles) Day 4: Trek from Tsotup Chu Valley to Chitu-La Pass —14 km (9 miles) Day 5: Chitu-La to Yamalung Valley — 14 km(9 miles) 4. Old Tingri to Everest Base Camp Trek • Min. duration:4 days • Max. altitude:5,200m (17,000 ft) • Difficulty: Moderate to hard • Start/finish: Old Tingri/ Rongbuk Monastery Everest Base Camp • Accommodation: Camping • Perfect for Hardy trekkers who don't have mountaineering skills, but like camping Dingri to Everest Base Camp is regarded as one of the world's classic hiking trails. It is 66km (41 miles) of trekking with altitudes ranging from 4,000m (13,000 ft) to 5,350m (17,500 ft). The daily trekking distance is from 12 to 22km (7–14 miles), taking 5–8 hours. You will trek through Himalayan valleys and remote Tibetan villages, across highland meadows, and desert-like plains. In Rongbuk Monastery, you can talk with a monk and receive a most sacred blessing. Suggested itinerary (an extra 3 days for Lhasa acclimatization and return travel are recommended): Day 1: Drive from Lhasa to Gyantse to Shigatse (7 hours) Day 2: Drive from Shigatse to Old Tingri (5 hours) Day 3: Trek from Old Tingri to Lungthang — 12km (7.5 miles) Day 4: Trek from Lungthang to Lamna La — 21km (13 miles) Day 5: Trek from Lamna La to Zommug — 20km (12 miles) Day 6: Trek from Zommug to Rongbuk Monastery — 5km (3 miles) Day 7: Drive from Rongbuk to Shigatse via Sakya (8 hours) Day 8: Drive from Shigatse to Lhasa (5 hours) Recommended Tibet Tours: • 8-Days Lhasa to Everest Base Camp Tour 5. The Kora Trek around Mount Kailash • Min. duration:3 days • Max. altitude:5,600m (18,400 ft) • Difficulty: Hard to very hard • Start/finish: Darchen • Accommodation: Local guesthouses • Perfect for: Buddhism pilgrims, adventurous trekkers with a very good level of fitness It is one of the world's classic trekking routes and most travelers who have aspirations of exploring Tibet will choose this route. It is a very great challenge to finish the 52-km(32-mile) trek, and you are expected to need to walk 6–8 hours per day. The average altitude of the whole trek is 5,000m (16,000 ft), and Drolma La Pass at 5,630m (18,470 ft) is the highest point on Mt.Kailash kora. A Kailash kora usually starts and ends in Darchen, always walking in a clockwise circle around Kailash. You can observe sacred Mt. Kailash from every angle as well as take a glance at the temples around it. Enjoying the beauty of Manasarovar Lake is recommended while acclimating to the locality. Suggested itinerary (an extra 3 days for Lhasa acclimatization and return travel are recommended): Day 1: Drive from Lhasa to Gyantse to Shigatse (7 hours) Day 2: Drive from Shigatse to Saga (3 hours) Day 3: Drive from Saga to Darchen, then to Lake Manasarovar and the Ghost Lake And back to Darchen (7 hours) Day 4: Kailash Kora Trek (Darchen to Dirapuk Monastery)— 20km (12miles) Day 5: Kailash Kora Trek (Dirapuk Monastery to Dzultripuk Monastery)— 18km (11 miles) Day 6: Kailash Kora Trek (Dzultripuk Monastery to Darchen) — 14km (9 miles) Day 7: Drive from Darchen to Zhada (9 hours) to see the Guge Kingdom remains Day 8: Drive from Zhada to Paryang (7 hours) Day 9: Drive from Paryang to Sakya (9 hours) Day 10: Drive from Sakya to Shigatse(3 hours) Day 11: Drive from Shigatse to Lhasa(5 hours) More of >> Mount Kailash and Lake Manasarovar Yatra. Recommended Tibet Tours: • 14-Day Tibet Tour including Mt. Kailash and Lake Manasarovar 6. Tsupu Monastery to Yambajan Trek • Min. duration:3 days • Max. altitude:5,300 m (17,388 ft) • Difficulty: Moderate to hard • Start/finish: Tsupu Monastery/Yambajan • Accommodation: Local guesthouses • Perfect for: keentrekkers The Tsupu Monastery to Yambajan (Yangpachen or Yangbajing) Monastery trek is one of the most popular trekking routes in Tibet. It is 70 kilometers (43 miles) from Lhasa to Tsupu Monastery and 60 kilometers (37 miles) from Tsupu Monastery to Yambajan. Between Yambajan and Lhasa, the journey back is around 90 kilometers (56 miles). The trekking route is 60 kilometers in total with an average altitude of 4,300 meters (14,100 feet). Lasar-La pass is the highest point during the trek with an altitude of 5,300 meters (17,400 feet). During the trip, you are not only can enjoy the beautiful Chubu Valley, alpine meadows, the glorious Nyainqentanglha Mountains, brilliant rape flowers, and magical geothermal springs but also get the opportunity to experience mysterious Tibetan Buddhism and rich Tibetan culture close up. Suggested itinerary (an extra 3 days for Lhasa acclimatization and return travel are recommended): Day 1: Drive from Lhasa to Tsupu Monastery (2hours) Day 2: Trek from Tsupu Monastery to Let Set Village— 10km (6 miles) Day 3: Trek from Let Set Village to Bacuo Village via Lasar-La Pass — 20km (12 miles) Day 4: Trek from Bacuo Village to Yambajan via Yambajan Temple — 30km (18 miles) Day 5: Drive from Yambajan to Lhasa (2 hours) Best Times for Trekking in Tibet Spring and autumn are the best seasons for hiking in Tibet —from April to May and from September to October. During these period of time, there is little rainfall and the weather is cool. It can make your hiking more enjoyable if there's less mud, more clear skies, and not too much heat. There's sunshine in the daytime, so you will feel warm enough when walking. The temperature during the daytime may still be as high as 12°C (54°F), however, the nights are very cold, mostly below freezing. Summer (June–August) is also suggested for hiking, but monsoon-season rainfall may suddenly stop your hiking and landslides could block mountain routes. As a plus, oxygen is most plentiful in this season and so there's a smaller possibility of altitude sickness. Easy/moderate treks, like Pabongka Monastery to Sera Monastery or the Galie Village trek, are most recommended for summer. Winter (November to April) is not suggested for trekking tours in Tibet, due to the harsh cold and thin air, not to mention that most trekking trails will be closed during this time due to snow-blocked passes. Also to know >>Best Time to Tibet Recommended Tibet Tours: • 8-Day Lhasa, Nyingchi, and Bome Spring Tour Avoiding Altitude Sickness When Trekking Altitude sickness is the main problem when hiking in Tibet. When ascending to high-altitude areas above 3,000 meters (10,000 feet), most people experience altitude sickness. Most travelers feel symptoms of shortness of breath, no appetite, weakness, and headaches. At night, you might feel short of breath and find it difficult to fall asleep. If you have severe symptoms of altitude sickness during the trek, the only treatment is to descend to a lower altitude. You should stop your ascent and supply yourself with medicines or oxygen immediately. If you feel very ill— for example breathing difficulties or dizziness, your local tour guide and driver will help you to go to a nearby medical service base for treatment. Good preparation is the first step to avoiding altitude sickness. Consult your doctor, do some physical training before going, and prepare altitude medicine. Most importantly choose the right travel insurance policy for you with an emergency evacuation service. Booking a tour with an experienced travel agency like China Highlights will ensure that you're cared for if you encounter difficulties. We will provide a bottle of oxygen for each traveler and an expert local guide. Things You Should Know before Trekking in Tibet Not only will you have to get a China Visa to hike in Tibet, but you'll also have to get a Tibet Entry Permit as well. Also, an Aliens' Travel Permit and a Military Permit are required for traveling to Mt. Kailash, Everest Base Camp, and other areas outside Lhasa. Tibet permits are granted by Tibet Tourism Administration and cannot be obtained independently. They are issued only when you have booked a tour with a China travel agency. See >>How to Apply for Tibet Permits. Packing List for Trekking in Tibet • Warm but lightweight clothes are necessary no matter which season you go. • Specialized clothing for hiking such as breathable raincoats, trekking shoes/boots, and sunglasses, hats, etc. for UV protection. • Camping equipment is provided by most travel agencies for treks, but most travelers prefer to bring their own sleeping bags. • Personal daily necessities like toothbrush, toothpaste, and comb • Snacks and emergency rations • Bottles/flasks for sufficient water + purification tablets for wild treks • Enough toilet paper and tissues • Medical suppliers: medicine for altitude sickness and any medication you regularly take or may need. Normally, your trekking guide will carry a first-aid bag for emergency client use. 1. The hiking trails in Tibet covered here are politically stable and safe.(Currently disputed areas like Ladakh/Kashmir are not recommended.) 2. There are porters or yaks to carry your packs on almost all trekking trails. Please ask your tour guide to help you hire a porter or yak. 3. It is hard to cook at high elevations as the water boils at lower temperatures and it would all evaporate away without a pressure cooker, however, it's easier to make a cup of tea. Instant cold food is suggested, such as bread, milk, dry beef, or fruits. 4. Based on the above hiking tours, accommodations will mostly be in local guesthouses, monasteries, or tents where facilities are really rough and simple. Most of them don't provide bathrooms or toilets. Do not expect too much the accommodation Trekking in Tibet with China Highlights Check out our trekking expeditions linked above if you're interested in a unique way to discover Tibet. Let us know what you're interested in if you have other ideas or would like some advice, and our expert travel advisors will help you pick the trek that best suits you and ensure you're well taken care of throughout your trip. • 17-Days Beijing, Xian, Tibet, Chengdu, Guilin and Hong Kong Tour • 13-Days Beijing–Xi'an–Lhasa-Shanghai Private Tour • 10-Days Beijing-Lhasa-Shanghai • 7-Days Tibet Tours by Train from Xining