ID: 4678e4d0a67d0569
Title: Kunming Tours 2026: Custom Trip Planner for Kunming
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/kunming/tours/
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Kunming, capital of Yunnan Province, is normally the gateway city for a Yunnan tour. It is a desirable metropolis with a comfortable climate, natural scenery, four-season flowers and a slow pace of life. Spending some time in Kunming is not only a chance to see the popular attractions such as the Stone Forest and West Hill, but also a chance to get a general impression of life in Yunnan. See the incredible vegetables in a wet market, visit a huge flower market, and taste authentic Yunnan food in a time-honored local restaurant. How to Plan Your Kunming Tour? Click to know more. The best times to visit Kunming are spring and winter. The rainy season is from May to October. Actually, Kunming has moderate weather throughout the year. It can be cold in winter and hot in summer, but it's not as severe as elsewhere; flowers bloom all year round! That is why Kunming is given the nickname "Spring City". Transportation to Kunming is very convenient. It can be accessed from the main cities of China by flights and bullet trains. There are also direct flights between Kunming and many overseas cities (when COVID-19 measures ease [Nov. 2020]). Two nights or three days is suggested to explore Kunming. You can cover all the famous attractions such as the stone forest, West Hill, and Dianchi Lake. It is also interesting to visit a local wet market and Green Lake Park if you want to have an experience of local life. Starting from Kunming, you can explore Yunnan. Go west for the classic Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-la journey into the Tibetan foothills. Go north for the colorful Dongchuan Red Land. Go east in spring for Luoping's canola flowers. Or go south for the Yuanyang Rice Terrace, Pu'er tea, and the tropical rainforest of Xishuangbanna. Our Kunming tours will take you to enjoy the best of the "Spring City" and discover its distinct urban culture and leisurely lifestyle. Top Recommended Kunming Tours The suggested itineraries below will give you some inspiration for touring kunming and areas nearby. Please feel free to contact us if you would like to tailor-make any of them or create a trip according to your ideas. Discover the Essence of Kunming 3-Day Kunming Tour Less touristy Stone Forest The local people's lifestyle View more Capture "God's Palette of Colors" 3-Day Kunming and Dongchuan Red Land Tour View more Sense Spring Vitality in Southwest China 5-Day Kunming, Luoping, and Wanfenglin Tour View more Yunnan Tours Starting from Kunming Here are the recommended Yunnan tours starting from Kunming We are happy to combine any other destinations with Kunming according to your interests to create your Yunnan trip. Fall in Love with the Heavenly Palette of Colors 6-Day Jianshui and Yuanyang Tour Terraced fields Ancient Chinese architectures View more Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tours View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Please Contact Us Other Popular Destinations in Yunnan Here are the other popular cities for a Yunnan tour. Click to get more information about each destination and tours Dali Cangshan Mountain.Erhai Lake Lijiang Ancient Town.Snow Mountain Shangri-LaSonganlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery Kunming, capital of Yunnan Province, is normally the gateway city for a Yunnan tour. It is a desirable metropolis with a comfortable climate, natural scenery, four-season flowers and a slow pace of life. Spending some time in Kunming is not only a chance to see the popular attractions such as the Stone Forest and West Hill, but also a chance to get a general impression of life in Yunnan. See the incredible vegetables in a wet market, visit a huge flower market, and taste authentic Yunnan food in a time-honored local restaurant. How to Plan Your Kunming Tour? Click to know more. The best times to visit Kunming are spring and winter. The rainy season is from May to October. Actually, Kunming has moderate weather throughout the year. It can be cold in winter and hot in summer, but it's not as severe as elsewhere; flowers bloom all year round! That is why Kunming is given the nickname "Spring City". Transportation to Kunming is very convenient. It can be accessed from the main cities of China by flights and bullet trains. There are also direct flights between Kunming and many overseas cities (when COVID-19 measures ease [Nov. 2020]). Two nights or three days is suggested to explore Kunming. You can cover all the famous attractions such as the stone forest, West Hill, and Dianchi Lake. It is also interesting to visit a local wet market and Green Lake Park if you want to have an experience of local life. Starting from Kunming, you can explore Yunnan. Go west for the classic Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-la journey into the Tibetan foothills. Go north for the colorful Dongchuan Red Land. Go east in spring for Luoping's canola flowers. Or go south for the Yuanyang Rice Terrace, Pu'er tea, and the tropical rainforest of Xishuangbanna. How to Plan Your Kunming Tour? Click to know more. The best times to visit Kunming are spring and winter. The rainy season is from May to October. Actually, Kunming has moderate weather throughout the year. It can be cold in winter and hot in summer, but it's not as severe as elsewhere; flowers bloom all year round! That is why Kunming is given the nickname "Spring City". Transportation to Kunming is very convenient. It can be accessed from the main cities of China by flights and bullet trains. There are also direct flights between Kunming and many overseas cities (when COVID-19 measures ease [Nov. 2020]). Two nights or three days is suggested to explore Kunming. You can cover all the famous attractions such as the stone forest, West Hill, and Dianchi Lake. It is also interesting to visit a local wet market and Green Lake Park if you want to have an experience of local life. Starting from Kunming, you can explore Yunnan. Go west for the classic Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-la journey into the Tibetan foothills. Go north for the colorful Dongchuan Red Land. Go east in spring for Luoping's canola flowers. Or go south for the Yuanyang Rice Terrace, Pu'er tea, and the tropical rainforest of Xishuangbanna. • The best times to visit Kunming are spring and winter. The rainy season is from May to October. Actually, Kunming has moderate weather throughout the year. It can be cold in winter and hot in summer, but it's not as severe as elsewhere; flowers bloom all year round! That is why Kunming is given the nickname "Spring City". • Transportation to Kunming is very convenient. It can be accessed from the main cities of China by flights and bullet trains. There are also direct flights between Kunming and many overseas cities (when COVID-19 measures ease [Nov. 2020]). • Two nights or three days is suggested to explore Kunming. You can cover all the famous attractions such as the stone forest, West Hill, and Dianchi Lake. It is also interesting to visit a local wet market and Green Lake Park if you want to have an experience of local life. • Starting from Kunming, you can explore Yunnan. Go west for the classic Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-la journey into the Tibetan foothills. Go north for the colorful Dongchuan Red Land. Go east in spring for Luoping's canola flowers. Or go south for the Yuanyang Rice Terrace, Pu'er tea, and the tropical rainforest of Xishuangbanna. Our Kunming tours will take you to enjoy the best of the "Spring City" and discover its distinct urban culture and leisurely lifestyle. Top Recommended Kunming Tours The suggested itineraries below will give you some inspiration for touring kunming and areas nearby. Please feel free to contact us if you would like to tailor-make any of them or create a trip according to your ideas. Discover the Essence of Kunming 3-Day Kunming Tour Less touristy Stone Forest The local people's lifestyle View more Discover the Essence of Kunming 3-Day Kunming Tour Less touristy Stone Forest The local people's lifestyle View more • Less touristy Stone Forest • The local people's lifestyle Capture "God's Palette of Colors" 3-Day Kunming and Dongchuan Red Land Tour View more Capture "God's Palette of Colors" 3-Day Kunming and Dongchuan Red Land Tour View more Sense Spring Vitality in Southwest China 5-Day Kunming, Luoping, and Wanfenglin Tour View more Sense Spring Vitality in Southwest China 5-Day Kunming, Luoping, and Wanfenglin Tour View more Yunnan Tours Starting from Kunming Here are the recommended Yunnan tours starting from Kunming We are happy to combine any other destinations with Kunming according to your interests to create your Yunnan trip. Fall in Love with the Heavenly Palette of Colors 6-Day Jianshui and Yuanyang Tour Terraced fields Ancient Chinese architectures View more Fall in Love with the Heavenly Palette of Colors 6-Day Jianshui and Yuanyang Tour Terraced fields Ancient Chinese architectures View more • Terraced fields • Ancient Chinese architectures Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tours View more Meet the Amazing Beauty of Yunnan 8-Day Kunming, Dali, Lijiang, and Shangri-La Tours View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more A Memorable Winter Trip in Yunnan 7-Day Kunming, Dali, and Lijiang Winter Tour View more No Suitable Tour? Need Advice? Other Popular Destinations in Yunnan Here are the other popular cities for a Yunnan tour. Click to get more information about each destination and tours Dali Cangshan Mountain.Erhai Lake Lijiang Ancient Town.Snow Mountain Shangri-LaSonganlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery Dali Cangshan Mountain.Erhai Lake Lijiang Ancient Town.Snow Mountain Shangri-LaSonganlin Monastery.Plateau Scenery Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Travelers Love China Highlights Useful Tips for Your Kunming Trip Expand All 1. Kunming Weather Kunming weather Average daily temperatures in summer in Kunming are 16–22°C (61–72°F) and the typical winter range is 3–16°C (36–61°F). Rainfall is concentrated from May to October, peaking with the summer heat, when almost daily rain then keeps temperatures moderate. The weather can be very changeable in a single day in the wet monsoon months, and the temperature difference is big between daytime and night, especially in the dry, cooler months (November–April). So, an extra jacket/coat is a must all year round. Sun protection is very important when you visit Kunming. You still can get sunburn even if you don't feel the heat of the sunlight. Read more 2. The Best Places to See the Stone Forest Naigu Stone Forest The Stone Forest Scenic Region covers numerous scenic areas and spots. There are actually two main areas to see the Stone Forest: 'The Greater and Lesser Stone Forests' and 'Naigu Stone Forest'. When people say "the Stone Forest", it always refers to 'the Greater and Lesser Stone Forests', the must-see Kunming attraction for Chinese tourists. We recommend that you see the less-visited Naigu Stone Forest to guarantee a better (less-crowded) experience. Read more 3. Dongchuan Red Land near Kunming Dongchuan Red Land Dongchuan Red Land is about 250 kilometers (155 miles) northeast of Kunming. It is a perfect place if you love idyllic scenery and photography. The best times are May to June for the views of potato flowers and wheat and September to November for views of buckwheat and Dongchuan's special white rape (canola) flowers. Sunrise and sunset are charming there. It is suggested to travel by a private car, because the scenic spots are scattered. Read more Useful Tips for Your Kunming Trip Expand All 1. Kunming Weather Kunming weather Average daily temperatures in summer in Kunming are 16–22°C (61–72°F) and the typical winter range is 3–16°C (36–61°F). Rainfall is concentrated from May to October, peaking with the summer heat, when almost daily rain then keeps temperatures moderate. The weather can be very changeable in a single day in the wet monsoon months, and the temperature difference is big between daytime and night, especially in the dry, cooler months (November–April). So, an extra jacket/coat is a must all year round. Sun protection is very important when you visit Kunming. You still can get sunburn even if you don't feel the heat of the sunlight. Read more 2. The Best Places to See the Stone Forest Naigu Stone Forest The Stone Forest Scenic Region covers numerous scenic areas and spots. There are actually two main areas to see the Stone Forest: 'The Greater and Lesser Stone Forests' and 'Naigu Stone Forest'. When people say "the Stone Forest", it always refers to 'the Greater and Lesser Stone Forests', the must-see Kunming attraction for Chinese tourists. We recommend that you see the less-visited Naigu Stone Forest to guarantee a better (less-crowded) experience. Read more 3. Dongchuan Red Land near Kunming Dongchuan Red Land Dongchuan Red Land is about 250 kilometers (155 miles) northeast of Kunming. It is a perfect place if you love idyllic scenery and photography. The best times are May to June for the views of potato flowers and wheat and September to November for views of buckwheat and Dongchuan's special white rape (canola) flowers. Sunrise and sunset are charming there. It is suggested to travel by a private car, because the scenic spots are scattered. Read more Kunming weather Average daily temperatures in summer in Kunming are 16–22°C (61–72°F) and the typical winter range is 3–16°C (36–61°F). Rainfall is concentrated from May to October, peaking with the summer heat, when almost daily rain then keeps temperatures moderate. The weather can be very changeable in a single day in the wet monsoon months, and the temperature difference is big between daytime and night, especially in the dry, cooler months (November–April). So, an extra jacket/coat is a must all year round. Sun protection is very important when you visit Kunming. You still can get sunburn even if you don't feel the heat of the sunlight. Read more Average daily temperatures in summer in Kunming are 16–22°C (61–72°F) and the typical winter range is 3–16°C (36–61°F). Rainfall is concentrated from May to October, peaking with the summer heat, when almost daily rain then keeps temperatures moderate. The weather can be very changeable in a single day in the wet monsoon months, and the temperature difference is big between daytime and night, especially in the dry, cooler months (November–April). So, an extra jacket/coat is a must all year round. Sun protection is very important when you visit Kunming. You still can get sunburn even if you don't feel the heat of the sunlight. Read more 2. The Best Places to See the Stone Forest Naigu Stone Forest The Stone Forest Scenic Region covers numerous scenic areas and spots. There are actually two main areas to see the Stone Forest: 'The Greater and Lesser Stone Forests' and 'Naigu Stone Forest'. When people say "the Stone Forest", it always refers to 'the Greater and Lesser Stone Forests', the must-see Kunming attraction for Chinese tourists. We recommend that you see the less-visited Naigu Stone Forest to guarantee a better (less-crowded) experience. Read more The Stone Forest Scenic Region covers numerous scenic areas and spots. There are actually two main areas to see the Stone Forest: 'The Greater and Lesser Stone Forests' and 'Naigu Stone Forest'. When people say "the Stone Forest", it always refers to 'the Greater and Lesser Stone Forests', the must-see Kunming attraction for Chinese tourists. We recommend that you see the less-visited Naigu Stone Forest to guarantee a better (less-crowded) experience. Read more 3. Dongchuan Red Land near Kunming Dongchuan Red Land Dongchuan Red Land is about 250 kilometers (155 miles) northeast of Kunming. It is a perfect place if you love idyllic scenery and photography. The best times are May to June for the views of potato flowers and wheat and September to November for views of buckwheat and Dongchuan's special white rape (canola) flowers. Sunrise and sunset are charming there. It is suggested to travel by a private car, because the scenic spots are scattered. Read more Dongchuan Red Land is about 250 kilometers (155 miles) northeast of Kunming. It is a perfect place if you love idyllic scenery and photography. The best times are May to June for the views of potato flowers and wheat and September to November for views of buckwheat and Dongchuan's special white rape (canola) flowers. Sunrise and sunset are charming there. It is suggested to travel by a private car, because the scenic spots are scattered. Read more