ID: 35adbd510fdc0773
Title: How to Plan a Guilin and Yangtze Cruise Trip (2026)
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/plan/trip-to-guilin-yangtze-river-cruise.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Guilin is renowned for its serene scenery, characterized by picturesque karst mountains, tranquil rivers, and idyllic rural landscapes, while a Yangtze River cruise showcases a majestic grandeur with deep gorges and dramatic vistas. If you seek a relaxing trip to embrace both peaceful and awe-inspiring mountain and river landscapes, this trip would provide an unforgettable experience. Based in Guilin with over 25 years of experience in customized China tours, we are well placed to assist you in planning a leisurely Guilin and Yangtze River cruise trip with this guide and our travel services. • How Long to Spend • A Suggested Itinerary • How Much Does the Trip Cost • How to Travel between Guilin and Yangtze River • How to Choose the Boat/Crusie • Best time to visit Guilin and Yangtze River How Many Days to Spend in Guilin and on a Yangtze River Cruise Spend 3–4 Days in Guilin The essence of Guilin typically includes karst peak viewing and a Li River cruise. It usually takes a full day to visit the iconic Elephant Trunk Hill and Reed Flute Cave in the downtown area, and 2 days to take a Li River cruise to Yangshuo and explore its idyllic countryside. Extend your trip by a day to visit Longsheng, where you could admire spectacular terraced rice fields and learn how to make bamboo tube rice with its ethnic villagers. Spend 4–5 Days on a Yangtze River Cruise The most popular Yangtze River cruises are between Chongqing and Yichang. Whether you choose a downstream or upstream cruise depends on your travel schedule or preferences. Both routes cover the same scenic spots, while the downstream cruise is slightly shorter due to faster sailing. Yangtze River Cruise Downstream (Chongqing to Yichang) Upstream (Yichang to Chongqing) Duration 4 days and 3 nights 5 days and 4 nights Boarding Time 6 pm to 9 pm 4 pm to 9 pm Itinerary Day 1: embarkation in Chongqing Day 2: Fengdu Ghost City Day 3: White Emperor City, Qutang Gorge, Wu Gorge and Shennv Stream Day 4: the Three Gorges Dam Disembarkation Day 1: embarkation in Yichang Day 2: the Three Gorges Dam Day 3: Wu Gorge, Shennv Stream, Qutang Gorge, and White Emperor City Day 4: Fengdu Ghost City Day 5: morning disembarkation Disembarkation Arrive in Yichang at about 11:30am Arrive in Chongqing at about 9 am How to Travel between Guilin and the Yangtze River Considering the convenience of transportation, we recommend visiting Guilin first and then taking the Yangtze River cruise. To travel between Guilin and the Yangtze River depends on whether you board the cruise in Yichang or Chongqing. Our recommendation is to board in Chongqing as there are more convenient travel options between Guilin and Chongqing. Between Guilin and Chongqing, we recommend direct bullet trains (about 5 hours) instead of taking a flight. Direct flights between Guilin and Chongqing are infrequent, often requiring a transfer. In comparison, bullet trains run more frequently and are less affected by weather. Between Guilin and Yichang, there are neither direct trains nor direct flights. You would need to transfer somewhere and the time you spend would be at least 8–10 hours. Suggested Itinerary: 7-Day Guilin and Yangtze River Cruise Essence Tour • Day 1: Guilin arrival; visit Elephant Trunk Hill, and later explore Li River nighttime scenery • Day 2: Longji Terraced Fields hiking and bamboo-tube-rice cooking experience • Day 3: Take a 4-hour Li River cruise to Yangshuo and enjoy a leisurely afternoon in the countryside. • Day 4: Visit Xianggong Hill on the drive back to Guilin, then take a bullet train ride of about 5 hours to Chongqing. After arriving, transfer to the dock for boarding • Day 5: Yangtze River cruise — shore excursion to Fengdu Ghost City • Day 6: Yangtze River cruise — Sail through Qutang Gorge and Wu Gorge, and take a shore excursion to Shennv Stream • Day 7: Yangtze River cruise — the Three Gorges Dam; Yichang departure In Guilin, you would have the chance to admire the picturesque landscape from different viewpoints and perspectives. First, on a Li River cruise, you would be surrounded by verdant hills, green water, and riverside views. Second, hiking or cycling along the Yulong River in Yangshuo, you would get up close to the mountains and witness the locals' rustic lifestyle at the foot of the mountains. While most visitors usually experience the above two viewpoints only, your guide would also lead you to Xianggong Hill for a panoramic view, which offers a unique vantage point for a bird's-eye view of rolling hills and the winding river. With these multifaceted perspectives, you could have a richer and more immersive appreciation of Guilin's enchanting scenery. Take a Li River cruise to enjoy the tranquil riverside scenery During your Yangtze River cruise between Chongqing and Yichang, daily shore excursions are scheduled. If you prefer a relaxing shore excursion, you should not miss taking a gaily-painted pleasure boat on Shennǚ Stream. Venture deep into the serene valley against a strong current, which has maintained its pristine and untouched state. Although there are elevators or escalators available, boarding and disembarking may still require some walking and stair climbing. Some shore excursions also involve stairs, which may be inconvenient for those with mobility issues. You could hire a carrier who is called a bang-bang ('help') by local people near the dock, to help with moving or carrying your luggage. If you enjoy walking, hiking to Three Gorges Summit after visiting White Emperor City could be a good choice. From the summit, you could overlook the gorge scenery, offering a more magnificent and wide view. Or you could choose to ride the cable car up to save energy. If you prefer not to participate in certain shore excursions, the cruise offers various onboard entertainment options, such as a game room, KTV, and a cinema, perfect for enjoying with family and friends. There is also a children's playground and a kids' pool, which are very popular with young ones. Staff are available to help supervise, allowing you to relax and enjoy your trip with peace of mind. Admire the majestic gorge sight while taking a Yangtze River cruise How to Choose Your Cruise Boat/Ship Li River Cruise Boats The short Li River cruise route from Guilin to Yangshuo typically lasts about 4 hours. Currently, 3-star and 4-star boat options are popular. Both types of boats depart at about 9–10 am and arrive at about 1 pm, passing by the same scenic spots. 3-Star Boat 4-Star Boat Type Comfortable Luxury Seat Arrangement Random arrangement Seating options available Seating Capacity 100 80 Meal No meals Western food and a Chinese buffet Decks Both have double-deck cabins and a top observation deck If you travel with your family, a 4-star cruise is recommended. They are the newest and best option, with more spacious and comfortable seats. We usually arrange a luxurious 4-star boat for our guests and try to book an upper-deck VIP cabin with a separate viewing deck for a better viewing experience. If you are more concerned about the cost, and you choose a 3-star boat, it is advisable to take some snacks since it doesn't provide meals, or you can pay extra money to have an optional boxed meal. The earlier you buy tickets, the better, as seats are assigned starting from the upper deck. The interior environment of a 4-star boat Yangtze River Cruise Ship 1. How to Choose the Cruise Ship There are now dozens of cruise ships available for a Yangtze River cruise. According to our field research and the feedback from our guests, we have carefully selected the following cruise ships for you, which are all suitable for families and couples. Century Legend and Century Paragon are highly recommended. These super 5-star cruises feature electric propulsion, which ensures a quieter and more peaceful experience while sailing. They are ideal for guests who seek a high-quality cruise experience. President 7, President 8, and Yangtze 2 are recommended next. President 7 and President 8 are heavy-tonnage ships known for their stability, spacious rooms, and large beds. Yangtze 2 has undergone renovation upgrades, featuring new décor and improved facilities. If you are looking for a cost-effective option, consider the Victoria Jenna, which offers an American-style service. It is relatively small but also luxurious. If you prefer the most luxurious cruise, Yangtze Explorer, with its one-to-one service, niche essence route, and electric propulsion could provide you with an unparalleled cruise experience. Century Legend is sailing on the Yangtze River 2. How to Choose the Deck Level The cruises typically have five to seven decks, with room types distributed between the second and sixth decks. The higher the floor, the more expensive the price, at about US$ 20 per floor upgrade. Entertainment rooms are located on the fifth and sixth decks, while dining areas are usually on the second and third decks. You could consider whether to stay on the higher decks or middle decks according to the following pros and cons: • Higher decks (4th to 6th deck) Pros: better views, closer to entertainment facilities Cons: slightly more swaying motion, farther from the dining areas • Middle decks (2nd to 3rd deck) Pros: more stable, closer to dining areas and elevators Cons: farther from entertainment facilities, slightly lower viewing perspectives For the elderly and children, as well as people with mobility difficulties, the middle decks are recommended. 3. How to Choose Your Cabin Most rooms are equipped with viewing balconies. The rooms in the bow and stern offer a better view, but there may be slightly more pitching motion, and the bow of the second floor might be affected by engine noise. Rooms in the middle of the ship are relatively quiet, closer to the elevator, and more convenient when taking the elevator. Although a specific room location cannot be guaranteed, you could choose which deck level to stay on. You could try to make your requests at the front desk when you board the ship. The staff may be able to accommodate your preferences, but it may not always be possible. For a family with kids, it is recommended to book a family suite with a child-sized bed. For couples or solo travelers, a room with a double bed is more suitable. Most of rooms on the ships have twin beds. If you travel alone, sharing a room with someone of the same gender is usually required, or you may need to pay more. How Much Does a Guilin Trip with a Yangtze River Cruise Cost? Typically, a classic 6-day Guilin and Yangtze River cruise package costs US$170–190 per person per day. The cost is based on a private tour for two people, including the whole Yangtze River cruise, entrance fees, meals, domestic transfers, English-speaking local guides, activities listed in the itinerary (except optional activities), accommodation, etc. The price could vary depending on travel dates, the number of people, and the Yangtze River cruise ship you choose. Traveling with more people in your group usually enables per-person savings. The Best Times to Take a Guilin and Yangtze River Cruise Trip September to November, except for National Day week (October 1st to 7th), is considered to be the best time to visit Guilin and take a Yangtze River cruise trip, with moderate temperatures averaging 15–25°C (59–77°F), less rainfall, and fewer crowds. Both the Li River and the Yangtze River are clear and green, and the fall scenery beside the gorges is gorgeous with flaming red maples. The second choice is from April to May, except for the May Day holiday from May 1st to 5th. It is also a vibrant time with refreshing scenery. The temperatures are as comfortable as in autumn, but there is more rain, and there are fewer visitors than during the summer vacation. July and August, the summer vacation period, is the peak season with large crowds and high temperatures. Temperatures reach more than 35°C (95°). But the crowds and heat are less noticeable on a Yangtze River cruise since the number of passengers is fixed and there is air-conditioning to keep you cool. You could enjoy various water activities with your family in Guilin to beat the heat. June may be not as suitable for your Guilin visit. Due to peak rainfall, the Li River often rises and becomes muddy, sometimes even becoming flooded, causing parts of Guilin to be submerged. Therefore, it's best to allow extra days for your visit and the flexibility to change your itinerary. With our experienced guides and tour planners, we would flexibly make the best of the weather. From December to March, many Yangtze River cruises and Li River boats undergo maintenance, resulting in limited operations. Both of these destinations experience relatively windy and cool conditions, with temperatures typically about 5–15°C (41–59°F). But this period also offers lower prices for Yangtze River cruises. Guilin often sees light rain and cloudy conditions during winter, so, once again, it's best to have schedule flexibility to enjoy the scenery of Guilin at clearer times, which our tailor-made tours provide. Contact us for an effortlessly-well-planned and expertly-executed China tour including Guilin and a Yangtze Cruise.