ID: 3f01cd39c8104239
Title: One-Day Longji Rice Terraced Fields and Minority Villages Tour
URL: https://www.chinahighlights.com/day-tours/guilin/one-day-longji-rice-terraced-fields-tour.htm
Source: China Highlights
================================================================================

Highlights Itinerary Price FAQ During this 1-day tour, our local professional guide from Guilin will accompany you as you hike to the Longji Rice Terraced Fields and visit two minority villages. You'll admire the most beautiful scenery of the terraced fields from different angles and discover the local minority cultures of the Zhuang and Yao peoples. Tour Highlights Visit two minority villages - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village and Ping'an Village - and admire the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields from various angles. Enjoy a home-visit to a local's house, and discover the culture and customs of the Zhuang people. This ethnic group has the largest population of all 55 minorities in China. Experience local minority dishes and snacks in a local family-style restaurant. See local Yao women who have famously long hair and are dressed in red clothes. Discover this unique ethnic group's culture relating to their long hair. The Design of the Day Trip There are collection and drop-off points in both Guilin and Yangshuo. Join a mini-group tour of ten people. Enjoy a wonderful day without any shopping excursions. Trip Video Preview To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call before 9:30pm from your tour guide to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Please Note: The listed itinerary might be adjusted by your guide due to the weather, transportation or other reasonable situations based on your agreement. 8:00 AM –10:00 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to Longji Ancient Zhuang Village Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually 8am. He/she will hold a Trippest banner so that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. It takes about 2 hours (108 kilometers) to get there from Guilin while it takes about 2½ hours (152 kilometers) to get there from Yangshuo County. A simple map of Longsheng area Details about Your Transport: If you stay in a hotel in Yangshuo County, the departure time is at about 7am–7:30am. The exact time will be given to you by your tour guide the day before your departure. Your driver will collect you from your hotel and drive to the ancient Zhuang village in Longji where you will meet your guide and the other tour members. The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 10:30 AM – 12:00 PM Visit an Ancient Zhuang Village in Longji The Longji Rice Terraced Fields are located in Longsheng County, Guilin. They span across six villages and have a long history of more than 2,000 years. The local Zhuang and Yao people have farmed these mountainous fields day after day and year after year their entire lives. Their ancestors would never have dreamed that this tough terraced land, farmed with their tears and sweat, could be transformed in such a way over time and now reward the locals with amazing scenery that attracts the rest of the world. The ancient Zhuang village you are going to visit is a small and quiet village where more than 300 Zhuang families live. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. This village has now become a window into the Zhuang culture for the rest of the world. Longji Ancient Zhuang Village is the originating point of the Zhuang people's terraced fields. The highest altitude in the village is about 1,300 meters while the lowest altitude there is 350 meters. The terraced fields there look magnificent. Zhuang village in Longji Details about Your Visit to the Village: First, you will walk for about 15 minutes from the ticketing gate to the Ecological Museum. You'll have the chance to see the locals plowing and sowing the terraced fields. In just the same way as their ancestors did, they are still working hard on this land to make a living without machines, preserving the history of this magnificent wonder. Local villagers When you arrive at the Ecological Museum, you'll find lots of folkloric articles exhibited there, highlighting the Zhuang people's folklore and customs. Afterward, you will visit a local Zhuang person's house to discover what their daily lifestyle is like. The houses of Zhuang people Visit a local Zhuang person's house Later, you'll take an eco-vehicle to the mountaintop - the viewing point known as ‘Slender Ditch' offers the best angle from which to view the beautiful terraced fields in Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. Slender Ditch Stream on the mountain Good to know: Most tour groups don't go to the Slender Ditch viewing point because it takes up extra time, money, and energy - but it's worth it. 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM Hike from Longji Ancient Zhuang Village to Ping'an Village After admiring the beautiful terraced fields from Slender Ditch, you will hike to another famous village - Ping'an Village. This hike takes about 1 hour to complete and is a distance of about 8 kilometers. The condition of the road you'll hike along isn't bad - there are no steep or dangerous paths and only a medium level of energy is required. Hiking Tips If it rains, the stone road might be very slippery so we recommend that you wear anti-skid shoes. For children over 3 years old, this hike can be a little challenging, but most complete it with extra encouragement from their parents. We can provide alpenstocks for you - feel free to ask your guide if you prefer to use them. Hiking along the fields 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM Lunch of Bamboo Rice at A Family Restaurant (At Your Own Expense) After completing the 1-hour hike, you will finally arrive at Ping'an Village. You will probably be thirsty and hungry, so it's time to take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch. You will have lunch at a local farmer's family restaurant where you'll have the chance to taste delicious local dishes, such as bamboo rice and other minority dishes. Bon appétit! Lunch is not included in the pricing. Delicious bamboo rice Delicious bamboo rice 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the ‘Seven Stars with the Moon' Viewing Point After lunch and feeling refreshed, you'll visit the most famous village in Longji - Ping'an Village. You'll see the beautiful scenery of Longji's magnificent terraced fields - this area is a paradise for shutterbugs. Many award-winning pictures were taken in this village. That's why it has become more and more famous, attracting many tourists each year. First, you'll head to the Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point. There, you'll see seven terraced fields surrounding a small hill - that's why people gave it this name. Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point Take a nice shot On the way, you'll have a chance to see some elderly Yao ladies with very long hair who has come from another village nearby so that you can learn about another ethnic group. The Yao people favor red clothing and the women always have long hair. In their culture, girls are only allowed to have their hair cut twice in their life. Do you know when? We'll keep it a secret and you can ask this lady yourself. The Yao people with long hair 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Visit the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers Viewing Point After speaking with the Yao lady, you'll go to the most beautiful viewing point - Nine Dragons and Five Tigers. This viewing point is the highlight of the day. See the awe-inspiring view of the terraced fields, consider the wisdom of the Zhuang people and all the hard work they have put into this land, and appreciate the beautiful harmony between man and nature. Take out your phone/camera and capture the beautiful sight so you can admire it again later. The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers 4:00 PM – 6:00 PM Drive Back to Guilin or Yangshuo Your trip comes to an end after visiting the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers viewing point. You'll be dropped off safely at your hotel in Guilin or Yangshuo. Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields in Longji. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Price Includes: Admission to Ancient Zhuang Village and Ping'an Village. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City In Yangshuo town, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the urban area. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the Green Lotus Hotel (碧莲江景酒店). What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-188-0773-4970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com During this 1-day tour, our local professional guide from Guilin will accompany you as you hike to the Longji Rice Terraced Fields and visit two minority villages. You'll admire the most beautiful scenery of the terraced fields from different angles and discover the local minority cultures of the Zhuang and Yao peoples. During this 1-day tour, our local professional guide from Guilin will accompany you as you hike to the Longji Rice Terraced Fields and visit two minority villages. You'll admire the most beautiful scenery of the terraced fields from different angles and discover the local minority cultures of the Zhuang and Yao peoples. Tour Highlights Visit two minority villages - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village and Ping'an Village - and admire the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields from various angles. Enjoy a home-visit to a local's house, and discover the culture and customs of the Zhuang people. This ethnic group has the largest population of all 55 minorities in China. Experience local minority dishes and snacks in a local family-style restaurant. See local Yao women who have famously long hair and are dressed in red clothes. Discover this unique ethnic group's culture relating to their long hair. • Visit two minority villages - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village and Ping'an Village - and admire the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields from various angles. • Enjoy a home-visit to a local's house, and discover the culture and customs of the Zhuang people. This ethnic group has the largest population of all 55 minorities in China. • Experience local minority dishes and snacks in a local family-style restaurant. • See local Yao women who have famously long hair and are dressed in red clothes. Discover this unique ethnic group's culture relating to their long hair. The Design of the Day Trip There are collection and drop-off points in both Guilin and Yangshuo. Join a mini-group tour of ten people. Enjoy a wonderful day without any shopping excursions. The Design of the Day Trip • There are collection and drop-off points in both Guilin and Yangshuo. • Join a mini-group tour of ten people. • Enjoy a wonderful day without any shopping excursions. Trip Video Preview To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video Detailed Itinerary Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call before 9:30pm from your tour guide to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Please Note: The listed itinerary might be adjusted by your guide due to the weather, transportation or other reasonable situations based on your agreement. 8:00 AM –10:00 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to Longji Ancient Zhuang Village Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually 8am. He/she will hold a Trippest banner so that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. It takes about 2 hours (108 kilometers) to get there from Guilin while it takes about 2½ hours (152 kilometers) to get there from Yangshuo County. A simple map of Longsheng area Details about Your Transport: If you stay in a hotel in Yangshuo County, the departure time is at about 7am–7:30am. The exact time will be given to you by your tour guide the day before your departure. Your driver will collect you from your hotel and drive to the ancient Zhuang village in Longji where you will meet your guide and the other tour members. The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 10:30 AM – 12:00 PM Visit an Ancient Zhuang Village in Longji The Longji Rice Terraced Fields are located in Longsheng County, Guilin. They span across six villages and have a long history of more than 2,000 years. The local Zhuang and Yao people have farmed these mountainous fields day after day and year after year their entire lives. Their ancestors would never have dreamed that this tough terraced land, farmed with their tears and sweat, could be transformed in such a way over time and now reward the locals with amazing scenery that attracts the rest of the world. The ancient Zhuang village you are going to visit is a small and quiet village where more than 300 Zhuang families live. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. This village has now become a window into the Zhuang culture for the rest of the world. Longji Ancient Zhuang Village is the originating point of the Zhuang people's terraced fields. The highest altitude in the village is about 1,300 meters while the lowest altitude there is 350 meters. The terraced fields there look magnificent. Zhuang village in Longji Details about Your Visit to the Village: First, you will walk for about 15 minutes from the ticketing gate to the Ecological Museum. You'll have the chance to see the locals plowing and sowing the terraced fields. In just the same way as their ancestors did, they are still working hard on this land to make a living without machines, preserving the history of this magnificent wonder. Local villagers When you arrive at the Ecological Museum, you'll find lots of folkloric articles exhibited there, highlighting the Zhuang people's folklore and customs. Afterward, you will visit a local Zhuang person's house to discover what their daily lifestyle is like. The houses of Zhuang people Visit a local Zhuang person's house Later, you'll take an eco-vehicle to the mountaintop - the viewing point known as ‘Slender Ditch' offers the best angle from which to view the beautiful terraced fields in Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. Slender Ditch Stream on the mountain Good to know: Most tour groups don't go to the Slender Ditch viewing point because it takes up extra time, money, and energy - but it's worth it. 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM Hike from Longji Ancient Zhuang Village to Ping'an Village After admiring the beautiful terraced fields from Slender Ditch, you will hike to another famous village - Ping'an Village. This hike takes about 1 hour to complete and is a distance of about 8 kilometers. The condition of the road you'll hike along isn't bad - there are no steep or dangerous paths and only a medium level of energy is required. Hiking Tips If it rains, the stone road might be very slippery so we recommend that you wear anti-skid shoes. For children over 3 years old, this hike can be a little challenging, but most complete it with extra encouragement from their parents. We can provide alpenstocks for you - feel free to ask your guide if you prefer to use them. Hiking along the fields 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM Lunch of Bamboo Rice at A Family Restaurant (At Your Own Expense) After completing the 1-hour hike, you will finally arrive at Ping'an Village. You will probably be thirsty and hungry, so it's time to take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch. You will have lunch at a local farmer's family restaurant where you'll have the chance to taste delicious local dishes, such as bamboo rice and other minority dishes. Bon appétit! Lunch is not included in the pricing. Delicious bamboo rice Delicious bamboo rice 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the ‘Seven Stars with the Moon' Viewing Point After lunch and feeling refreshed, you'll visit the most famous village in Longji - Ping'an Village. You'll see the beautiful scenery of Longji's magnificent terraced fields - this area is a paradise for shutterbugs. Many award-winning pictures were taken in this village. That's why it has become more and more famous, attracting many tourists each year. First, you'll head to the Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point. There, you'll see seven terraced fields surrounding a small hill - that's why people gave it this name. Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point Take a nice shot On the way, you'll have a chance to see some elderly Yao ladies with very long hair who has come from another village nearby so that you can learn about another ethnic group. The Yao people favor red clothing and the women always have long hair. In their culture, girls are only allowed to have their hair cut twice in their life. Do you know when? We'll keep it a secret and you can ask this lady yourself. The Yao people with long hair 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Visit the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers Viewing Point After speaking with the Yao lady, you'll go to the most beautiful viewing point - Nine Dragons and Five Tigers. This viewing point is the highlight of the day. See the awe-inspiring view of the terraced fields, consider the wisdom of the Zhuang people and all the hard work they have put into this land, and appreciate the beautiful harmony between man and nature. Take out your phone/camera and capture the beautiful sight so you can admire it again later. The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers 4:00 PM – 6:00 PM Drive Back to Guilin or Yangshuo Your trip comes to an end after visiting the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers viewing point. You'll be dropped off safely at your hotel in Guilin or Yangshuo. Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields in Longji. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Close All The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call before 9:30pm from your tour guide to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Please Note: The listed itinerary might be adjusted by your guide due to the weather, transportation or other reasonable situations based on your agreement. 8:00 AM –10:00 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to Longji Ancient Zhuang Village Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually 8am. He/she will hold a Trippest banner so that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. It takes about 2 hours (108 kilometers) to get there from Guilin while it takes about 2½ hours (152 kilometers) to get there from Yangshuo County. A simple map of Longsheng area Details about Your Transport: If you stay in a hotel in Yangshuo County, the departure time is at about 7am–7:30am. The exact time will be given to you by your tour guide the day before your departure. Your driver will collect you from your hotel and drive to the ancient Zhuang village in Longji where you will meet your guide and the other tour members. The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 10:30 AM – 12:00 PM Visit an Ancient Zhuang Village in Longji The Longji Rice Terraced Fields are located in Longsheng County, Guilin. They span across six villages and have a long history of more than 2,000 years. The local Zhuang and Yao people have farmed these mountainous fields day after day and year after year their entire lives. Their ancestors would never have dreamed that this tough terraced land, farmed with their tears and sweat, could be transformed in such a way over time and now reward the locals with amazing scenery that attracts the rest of the world. The ancient Zhuang village you are going to visit is a small and quiet village where more than 300 Zhuang families live. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. This village has now become a window into the Zhuang culture for the rest of the world. Longji Ancient Zhuang Village is the originating point of the Zhuang people's terraced fields. The highest altitude in the village is about 1,300 meters while the lowest altitude there is 350 meters. The terraced fields there look magnificent. Zhuang village in Longji Details about Your Visit to the Village: First, you will walk for about 15 minutes from the ticketing gate to the Ecological Museum. You'll have the chance to see the locals plowing and sowing the terraced fields. In just the same way as their ancestors did, they are still working hard on this land to make a living without machines, preserving the history of this magnificent wonder. Local villagers When you arrive at the Ecological Museum, you'll find lots of folkloric articles exhibited there, highlighting the Zhuang people's folklore and customs. Afterward, you will visit a local Zhuang person's house to discover what their daily lifestyle is like. The houses of Zhuang people Visit a local Zhuang person's house Later, you'll take an eco-vehicle to the mountaintop - the viewing point known as ‘Slender Ditch' offers the best angle from which to view the beautiful terraced fields in Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. Slender Ditch Stream on the mountain Good to know: Most tour groups don't go to the Slender Ditch viewing point because it takes up extra time, money, and energy - but it's worth it. 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM Hike from Longji Ancient Zhuang Village to Ping'an Village After admiring the beautiful terraced fields from Slender Ditch, you will hike to another famous village - Ping'an Village. This hike takes about 1 hour to complete and is a distance of about 8 kilometers. The condition of the road you'll hike along isn't bad - there are no steep or dangerous paths and only a medium level of energy is required. Hiking Tips If it rains, the stone road might be very slippery so we recommend that you wear anti-skid shoes. For children over 3 years old, this hike can be a little challenging, but most complete it with extra encouragement from their parents. We can provide alpenstocks for you - feel free to ask your guide if you prefer to use them. Hiking along the fields 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM Lunch of Bamboo Rice at A Family Restaurant (At Your Own Expense) After completing the 1-hour hike, you will finally arrive at Ping'an Village. You will probably be thirsty and hungry, so it's time to take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch. You will have lunch at a local farmer's family restaurant where you'll have the chance to taste delicious local dishes, such as bamboo rice and other minority dishes. Bon appétit! Lunch is not included in the pricing. Delicious bamboo rice Delicious bamboo rice 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the ‘Seven Stars with the Moon' Viewing Point After lunch and feeling refreshed, you'll visit the most famous village in Longji - Ping'an Village. You'll see the beautiful scenery of Longji's magnificent terraced fields - this area is a paradise for shutterbugs. Many award-winning pictures were taken in this village. That's why it has become more and more famous, attracting many tourists each year. First, you'll head to the Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point. There, you'll see seven terraced fields surrounding a small hill - that's why people gave it this name. Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point Take a nice shot On the way, you'll have a chance to see some elderly Yao ladies with very long hair who has come from another village nearby so that you can learn about another ethnic group. The Yao people favor red clothing and the women always have long hair. In their culture, girls are only allowed to have their hair cut twice in their life. Do you know when? We'll keep it a secret and you can ask this lady yourself. The Yao people with long hair 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Visit the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers Viewing Point After speaking with the Yao lady, you'll go to the most beautiful viewing point - Nine Dragons and Five Tigers. This viewing point is the highlight of the day. See the awe-inspiring view of the terraced fields, consider the wisdom of the Zhuang people and all the hard work they have put into this land, and appreciate the beautiful harmony between man and nature. Take out your phone/camera and capture the beautiful sight so you can admire it again later. The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers 4:00 PM – 6:00 PM Drive Back to Guilin or Yangshuo Your trip comes to an end after visiting the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers viewing point. You'll be dropped off safely at your hotel in Guilin or Yangshuo. Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields in Longji. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call before 9:30pm from your tour guide to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Please Note: The listed itinerary might be adjusted by your guide due to the weather, transportation or other reasonable situations based on your agreement. The Day Before Your Day Trip You'll receive a telephone call before 9:30pm from your tour guide to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. Please Note: The listed itinerary might be adjusted by your guide due to the weather, transportation or other reasonable situations based on your agreement. You'll receive a telephone call before 9:30pm from your tour guide to let you know the exact collection time for your trip the next day. If, for any reason, you don't receive our email or get a telephone call from your guide, which has never happened before, please call our 24-hour hotline in Guilin at +86-18807734970 or add WeChat ID: trippest666, and we will rectify this. • The listed itinerary might be adjusted by your guide due to the weather, transportation or other reasonable situations based on your agreement. 8:00 AM –10:00 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to Longji Ancient Zhuang Village Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually 8am. He/she will hold a Trippest banner so that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. It takes about 2 hours (108 kilometers) to get there from Guilin while it takes about 2½ hours (152 kilometers) to get there from Yangshuo County. A simple map of Longsheng area Details about Your Transport: If you stay in a hotel in Yangshuo County, the departure time is at about 7am–7:30am. The exact time will be given to you by your tour guide the day before your departure. Your driver will collect you from your hotel and drive to the ancient Zhuang village in Longji where you will meet your guide and the other tour members. The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 8:00 AM –10:00 AM Hotel Collection and Drive to Longji Ancient Zhuang Village Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually 8am. He/she will hold a Trippest banner so that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. It takes about 2 hours (108 kilometers) to get there from Guilin while it takes about 2½ hours (152 kilometers) to get there from Yangshuo County. A simple map of Longsheng area Details about Your Transport: If you stay in a hotel in Yangshuo County, the departure time is at about 7am–7:30am. The exact time will be given to you by your tour guide the day before your departure. Your driver will collect you from your hotel and drive to the ancient Zhuang village in Longji where you will meet your guide and the other tour members. The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. Your guide will be waiting for you in your hotel's lobby or other appointed location at the agreed time, which is usually 8am. He/she will hold a Trippest banner so that you recognize him/her immediately. You'll join a group with no more than ten members, which is a great size to ensure you enjoy a better travel experience. Professional tour guide and our vehicle / Photo by: David Deng After collecting all the members, your tour group will head to the first destination - Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. It takes about 2 hours (108 kilometers) to get there from Guilin while it takes about 2½ hours (152 kilometers) to get there from Yangshuo County. A simple map of Longsheng area Details about Your Transport: • If you stay in a hotel in Yangshuo County, the departure time is at about 7am–7:30am. The exact time will be given to you by your tour guide the day before your departure. Your driver will collect you from your hotel and drive to the ancient Zhuang village in Longji where you will meet your guide and the other tour members. • The free hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. For further distances, you can hire a taxi to the apointed hotel, please provide your hotel information in the booking form. For detailed pick-up and drop-off area, please read our FAQ. • Our drivers are licensed and have at least 5 years' driving experience. This ensures you have a safe trip. Our vehicles are comfortable and spacious, being equipped with a safety belt on every seat, air conditioners, and an unlimited supply of bottled water. • We purchase trip insurance for each member to protect your safety. 10:30 AM – 12:00 PM Visit an Ancient Zhuang Village in Longji The Longji Rice Terraced Fields are located in Longsheng County, Guilin. They span across six villages and have a long history of more than 2,000 years. The local Zhuang and Yao people have farmed these mountainous fields day after day and year after year their entire lives. Their ancestors would never have dreamed that this tough terraced land, farmed with their tears and sweat, could be transformed in such a way over time and now reward the locals with amazing scenery that attracts the rest of the world. The ancient Zhuang village you are going to visit is a small and quiet village where more than 300 Zhuang families live. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. This village has now become a window into the Zhuang culture for the rest of the world. Longji Ancient Zhuang Village is the originating point of the Zhuang people's terraced fields. The highest altitude in the village is about 1,300 meters while the lowest altitude there is 350 meters. The terraced fields there look magnificent. Zhuang village in Longji Details about Your Visit to the Village: First, you will walk for about 15 minutes from the ticketing gate to the Ecological Museum. You'll have the chance to see the locals plowing and sowing the terraced fields. In just the same way as their ancestors did, they are still working hard on this land to make a living without machines, preserving the history of this magnificent wonder. Local villagers When you arrive at the Ecological Museum, you'll find lots of folkloric articles exhibited there, highlighting the Zhuang people's folklore and customs. Afterward, you will visit a local Zhuang person's house to discover what their daily lifestyle is like. The houses of Zhuang people Visit a local Zhuang person's house Later, you'll take an eco-vehicle to the mountaintop - the viewing point known as ‘Slender Ditch' offers the best angle from which to view the beautiful terraced fields in Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. Slender Ditch Stream on the mountain Good to know: Most tour groups don't go to the Slender Ditch viewing point because it takes up extra time, money, and energy - but it's worth it. 10:30 AM – 12:00 PM Visit an Ancient Zhuang Village in Longji The Longji Rice Terraced Fields are located in Longsheng County, Guilin. They span across six villages and have a long history of more than 2,000 years. The local Zhuang and Yao people have farmed these mountainous fields day after day and year after year their entire lives. Their ancestors would never have dreamed that this tough terraced land, farmed with their tears and sweat, could be transformed in such a way over time and now reward the locals with amazing scenery that attracts the rest of the world. The ancient Zhuang village you are going to visit is a small and quiet village where more than 300 Zhuang families live. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. This village has now become a window into the Zhuang culture for the rest of the world. Longji Ancient Zhuang Village is the originating point of the Zhuang people's terraced fields. The highest altitude in the village is about 1,300 meters while the lowest altitude there is 350 meters. The terraced fields there look magnificent. Zhuang village in Longji Details about Your Visit to the Village: First, you will walk for about 15 minutes from the ticketing gate to the Ecological Museum. You'll have the chance to see the locals plowing and sowing the terraced fields. In just the same way as their ancestors did, they are still working hard on this land to make a living without machines, preserving the history of this magnificent wonder. Local villagers When you arrive at the Ecological Museum, you'll find lots of folkloric articles exhibited there, highlighting the Zhuang people's folklore and customs. Afterward, you will visit a local Zhuang person's house to discover what their daily lifestyle is like. The houses of Zhuang people Visit a local Zhuang person's house Later, you'll take an eco-vehicle to the mountaintop - the viewing point known as ‘Slender Ditch' offers the best angle from which to view the beautiful terraced fields in Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. Slender Ditch Stream on the mountain Good to know: Most tour groups don't go to the Slender Ditch viewing point because it takes up extra time, money, and energy - but it's worth it. The Longji Rice Terraced Fields are located in Longsheng County, Guilin. They span across six villages and have a long history of more than 2,000 years. The local Zhuang and Yao people have farmed these mountainous fields day after day and year after year their entire lives. Their ancestors would never have dreamed that this tough terraced land, farmed with their tears and sweat, could be transformed in such a way over time and now reward the locals with amazing scenery that attracts the rest of the world. The ancient Zhuang village you are going to visit is a small and quiet village where more than 300 Zhuang families live. Many of the local residences have a history of over 100 years. This village has now become a window into the Zhuang culture for the rest of the world. Longji Ancient Zhuang Village is the originating point of the Zhuang people's terraced fields. The highest altitude in the village is about 1,300 meters while the lowest altitude there is 350 meters. The terraced fields there look magnificent. Zhuang village in Longji Details about Your Visit to the Village: • First, you will walk for about 15 minutes from the ticketing gate to the Ecological Museum. You'll have the chance to see the locals plowing and sowing the terraced fields. In just the same way as their ancestors did, they are still working hard on this land to make a living without machines, preserving the history of this magnificent wonder. First, you will walk for about 15 minutes from the ticketing gate to the Ecological Museum. You'll have the chance to see the locals plowing and sowing the terraced fields. In just the same way as their ancestors did, they are still working hard on this land to make a living without machines, preserving the history of this magnificent wonder. • When you arrive at the Ecological Museum, you'll find lots of folkloric articles exhibited there, highlighting the Zhuang people's folklore and customs. Afterward, you will visit a local Zhuang person's house to discover what their daily lifestyle is like. When you arrive at the Ecological Museum, you'll find lots of folkloric articles exhibited there, highlighting the Zhuang people's folklore and customs. Afterward, you will visit a local Zhuang person's house to discover what their daily lifestyle is like. The houses of Zhuang people Visit a local Zhuang person's house • Later, you'll take an eco-vehicle to the mountaintop - the viewing point known as ‘Slender Ditch' offers the best angle from which to view the beautiful terraced fields in Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. Later, you'll take an eco-vehicle to the mountaintop - the viewing point known as ‘Slender Ditch' offers the best angle from which to view the beautiful terraced fields in Longji Ancient Zhuang Village. Stream on the mountain • Most tour groups don't go to the Slender Ditch viewing point because it takes up extra time, money, and energy - but it's worth it. 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM Hike from Longji Ancient Zhuang Village to Ping'an Village After admiring the beautiful terraced fields from Slender Ditch, you will hike to another famous village - Ping'an Village. This hike takes about 1 hour to complete and is a distance of about 8 kilometers. The condition of the road you'll hike along isn't bad - there are no steep or dangerous paths and only a medium level of energy is required. Hiking Tips If it rains, the stone road might be very slippery so we recommend that you wear anti-skid shoes. For children over 3 years old, this hike can be a little challenging, but most complete it with extra encouragement from their parents. We can provide alpenstocks for you - feel free to ask your guide if you prefer to use them. Hiking along the fields 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM Hike from Longji Ancient Zhuang Village to Ping'an Village After admiring the beautiful terraced fields from Slender Ditch, you will hike to another famous village - Ping'an Village. This hike takes about 1 hour to complete and is a distance of about 8 kilometers. The condition of the road you'll hike along isn't bad - there are no steep or dangerous paths and only a medium level of energy is required. Hiking Tips If it rains, the stone road might be very slippery so we recommend that you wear anti-skid shoes. For children over 3 years old, this hike can be a little challenging, but most complete it with extra encouragement from their parents. We can provide alpenstocks for you - feel free to ask your guide if you prefer to use them. Hiking along the fields After admiring the beautiful terraced fields from Slender Ditch, you will hike to another famous village - Ping'an Village. This hike takes about 1 hour to complete and is a distance of about 8 kilometers. The condition of the road you'll hike along isn't bad - there are no steep or dangerous paths and only a medium level of energy is required. • If it rains, the stone road might be very slippery so we recommend that you wear anti-skid shoes. • For children over 3 years old, this hike can be a little challenging, but most complete it with extra encouragement from their parents. • We can provide alpenstocks for you - feel free to ask your guide if you prefer to use them. Hiking along the fields 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM Lunch of Bamboo Rice at A Family Restaurant (At Your Own Expense) After completing the 1-hour hike, you will finally arrive at Ping'an Village. You will probably be thirsty and hungry, so it's time to take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch. You will have lunch at a local farmer's family restaurant where you'll have the chance to taste delicious local dishes, such as bamboo rice and other minority dishes. Bon appétit! Lunch is not included in the pricing. Delicious bamboo rice Delicious bamboo rice 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM Lunch of Bamboo Rice at A Family Restaurant (At Your Own Expense) After completing the 1-hour hike, you will finally arrive at Ping'an Village. You will probably be thirsty and hungry, so it's time to take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch. You will have lunch at a local farmer's family restaurant where you'll have the chance to taste delicious local dishes, such as bamboo rice and other minority dishes. Bon appétit! Lunch is not included in the pricing. Delicious bamboo rice Delicious bamboo rice After completing the 1-hour hike, you will finally arrive at Ping'an Village. You will probably be thirsty and hungry, so it's time to take a break and enjoy a delicious lunch. You will have lunch at a local farmer's family restaurant where you'll have the chance to taste delicious local dishes, such as bamboo rice and other minority dishes. Bon appétit! Lunch is not included in the pricing. Delicious bamboo rice Delicious bamboo rice 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the ‘Seven Stars with the Moon' Viewing Point After lunch and feeling refreshed, you'll visit the most famous village in Longji - Ping'an Village. You'll see the beautiful scenery of Longji's magnificent terraced fields - this area is a paradise for shutterbugs. Many award-winning pictures were taken in this village. That's why it has become more and more famous, attracting many tourists each year. First, you'll head to the Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point. There, you'll see seven terraced fields surrounding a small hill - that's why people gave it this name. Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point Take a nice shot On the way, you'll have a chance to see some elderly Yao ladies with very long hair who has come from another village nearby so that you can learn about another ethnic group. The Yao people favor red clothing and the women always have long hair. In their culture, girls are only allowed to have their hair cut twice in their life. Do you know when? We'll keep it a secret and you can ask this lady yourself. The Yao people with long hair 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM Visit the ‘Seven Stars with the Moon' Viewing Point After lunch and feeling refreshed, you'll visit the most famous village in Longji - Ping'an Village. You'll see the beautiful scenery of Longji's magnificent terraced fields - this area is a paradise for shutterbugs. Many award-winning pictures were taken in this village. That's why it has become more and more famous, attracting many tourists each year. First, you'll head to the Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point. There, you'll see seven terraced fields surrounding a small hill - that's why people gave it this name. Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point Take a nice shot On the way, you'll have a chance to see some elderly Yao ladies with very long hair who has come from another village nearby so that you can learn about another ethnic group. The Yao people favor red clothing and the women always have long hair. In their culture, girls are only allowed to have their hair cut twice in their life. Do you know when? We'll keep it a secret and you can ask this lady yourself. The Yao people with long hair After lunch and feeling refreshed, you'll visit the most famous village in Longji - Ping'an Village. You'll see the beautiful scenery of Longji's magnificent terraced fields - this area is a paradise for shutterbugs. Many award-winning pictures were taken in this village. That's why it has become more and more famous, attracting many tourists each year. First, you'll head to the Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point. There, you'll see seven terraced fields surrounding a small hill - that's why people gave it this name. Seven Stars with the Moon viewing point On the way, you'll have a chance to see some elderly Yao ladies with very long hair who has come from another village nearby so that you can learn about another ethnic group. The Yao people favor red clothing and the women always have long hair. In their culture, girls are only allowed to have their hair cut twice in their life. Do you know when? We'll keep it a secret and you can ask this lady yourself. The Yao people with long hair 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Visit the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers Viewing Point After speaking with the Yao lady, you'll go to the most beautiful viewing point - Nine Dragons and Five Tigers. This viewing point is the highlight of the day. See the awe-inspiring view of the terraced fields, consider the wisdom of the Zhuang people and all the hard work they have put into this land, and appreciate the beautiful harmony between man and nature. Take out your phone/camera and capture the beautiful sight so you can admire it again later. The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Visit the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers Viewing Point After speaking with the Yao lady, you'll go to the most beautiful viewing point - Nine Dragons and Five Tigers. This viewing point is the highlight of the day. See the awe-inspiring view of the terraced fields, consider the wisdom of the Zhuang people and all the hard work they have put into this land, and appreciate the beautiful harmony between man and nature. Take out your phone/camera and capture the beautiful sight so you can admire it again later. The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers After speaking with the Yao lady, you'll go to the most beautiful viewing point - Nine Dragons and Five Tigers. This viewing point is the highlight of the day. See the awe-inspiring view of the terraced fields, consider the wisdom of the Zhuang people and all the hard work they have put into this land, and appreciate the beautiful harmony between man and nature. Take out your phone/camera and capture the beautiful sight so you can admire it again later. The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers The view point of Nine Dragons and Five Tigers 4:00 PM – 6:00 PM Drive Back to Guilin or Yangshuo Your trip comes to an end after visiting the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers viewing point. You'll be dropped off safely at your hotel in Guilin or Yangshuo. Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields in Longji. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. 4:00 PM – 6:00 PM Drive Back to Guilin or Yangshuo Your trip comes to an end after visiting the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers viewing point. You'll be dropped off safely at your hotel in Guilin or Yangshuo. Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields in Longji. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Your trip comes to an end after visiting the Nine Dragons and Five Tigers viewing point. You'll be dropped off safely at your hotel in Guilin or Yangshuo. Share Your Experiences Please share your happy experiences of this day with your friends on your Facebook page or via TripAdvisor. This encourages more people to have the chance to see the beautiful scenery of the terraced fields in Longji. Follow us on our Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/trippest/ for updates and our trip photos. We hope to see you again soon. Price Includes: Admission to Ancient Zhuang Village and Ping'an Village. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Price Includes: Admission to Ancient Zhuang Village and Ping'an Village. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). Price Includes: Admission to Ancient Zhuang Village and Ping'an Village. Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. English-speaking local guide service. Price Excludes: Personal expenses. Lunch. Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). • Admission to Ancient Zhuang Village and Ping'an Village. • Transport between attractions, including pickup and return to your hotel. • English-speaking local guide service. • Personal expenses. • Lunch. • Tipping of guide & driver recommended on good service on a 2:1 ratio separately (usually 50-100 RMB per person). FAQs About This Tour What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City In Yangshuo town, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the urban area. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the Green Lotus Hotel (碧莲江景酒店). What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-188-0773-4970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City In Yangshuo town, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the urban area. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the Green Lotus Hotel (碧莲江景酒店). What is the hotel pick-up and drop-off area? The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City In Yangshuo town, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the urban area. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the Green Lotus Hotel (碧莲江景酒店). The hotel collection and drop-off areas will be within the urban areas of Guilin and Yangshuo. In Guilin city, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the following area: the north side is Beijiguangchang/北极广场, the west side is West Hill Park/西山公园, the east side is Sanlidian Square/三里店广场 and the south side is Wonderful Plaza/万福广场. Most of the major hotels are located in these areas such as The Sheraton Hotel, The Shangri-la Hotel, The Li River Waterfall Hotel and Guilin Bravo Hotel etc. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the appointed hotel which your tour guide will tell you the day before the trip. Hotel Pick-up and Drop-off Area Map of Guilin City In Yangshuo town, the hotel collection and drop-off area should be within the urban area. For further distances, you need to hire a taxi to the Green Lotus Hotel (碧莲江景酒店). What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What is your cancellation policy? If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. Within 3 days before departure: no refund. After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. • If we are not able to implement the contract due to war, flood, typhoon, fire, strikes, storm, earthquake, or any other condition we are not able to foresee and avoid, we will inform customers at the first possible opportunity and offer the best possible solutions, and the final bill shall be settled based on the service we actually provide. • Up to 7 days before departure: 100% refund of all money paid, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • From 3 to 7 days before departure: 90% refund, excluding penalties charged by hotels, railways, airlines, and PayPal, if applicable. All penalties will be itemized. • Within 3 days before departure: no refund. • After the trip has commenced, we are unable to refund any amount for canceled services due to non-participation, early departure, late arrival, or missed days on tours. • For groups of more than 10 people: The terms of cancellation may vary from case to case. Please ask your travel advisor regarding the cancellation policy for your group. What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-188-0773-4970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com What if I want to make a last-minute booking? In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-188-0773-4970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com In order to make sure we have enough time to arrange your trip and ensure availability, we usually require the customer to book at least 24 hours in advance. You can not book online less than 24 hours before the beginning of a trip. But that does not mean you have no chance to book last-minute or within 24 hours! For urgent booking, please call us at +86-188-0773-4970 to check availability (usually trips are still available last minutes) or send an email (not recommended as the response may not be immediate) to: inquiry@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 136 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 136 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com For any questions please contact us via Mobile: +86 18807734970 WeChat: trippest666 Email: niko@trippest.com Price from USD 136 p/p Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Book Now Adult (age 12+) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Child (age 2-11) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20