ID: 2ecf866c2525af2
Title: WildChina Receives TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2016/10/wildchina-tripadvisor-certificate-of-excellence/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2016-10-11T20:24:10+08:00
Tags: Awards, In the News
================================================================================

This week, we are very pleased to have been awarded a TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence as a top rated China tour and activity provider. The award is given to businesses that “consistently achieve outstanding traveler reviews on TripAdvisor” and with 53 reviews rated as ‘Excellent’ (and 3 rated as ‘Very Good’), we fall pretty strongly into that category. We sincerely want to thank all of the wonderful clients who have reviewed us so far and have gained us this recognition. We are so touched by the glowing stories and warm words you have said about us, and are especially grateful for the time that some of you have spent writing very lengthy accounts of all the great things you’ve experienced in China with us. In the words of our Founder, Zhang Mei: “Sometimes, planning a trip can be tedious, but when we receive such thoughtful reviews, all our hard work is worth it. That’s what my team and I live for on a day to day basis, creating memorable experiences.” Thank you for your support so far. We treasure every one of our 53 reviews, however there is still a long way to go to reach the top of the ranks and there are so many more great WildChina stories to be told! If you’ve traveled with us and haven’t done so already, please share your experiences. And for those about to embark on a WildChina journey, please don’t forget to leave your review for us on TripAdvisor after you return so we can help more travelers to experience China differently! Here are some highlights from our reviews: “On our tour, we had experiences – going places and meeting people – that we could never have found, no matter how much time we had taken… Moreover, their pride in their regions and in their roles as guides was evident and infectious: we just wanted to spend more time with them: we were privileged. There was also room for flexibility to make changes to take in our preferences and to see events that we came upon by chance or had been scheduled after we had settled on the original itinerary.” – mn50something, Sydney “Unforgettable. My husband and I had a 12 day trip through the mountainous ethnic regions from Guiyang to Guilin. We came back with a feeling for the culture and people of the area visited which we could never have had on our own. Our guides were knowledgeable, friendly and enjoyable to be with.” ​- ​Traveler8068. Fresno, California “We just returned from 2 weeks in China, and my husband and I can’t stop talking about this trip and our Wild China experience… All of our guides were perfectly suited to each area where they lived and worked. Each brought a love of their village/city and an openness to our questions and requests… All were gems and it felt like we left friends behind when we left China. The Chinese people were warm and excited to meet us. This was a trip of a life time and we have Wild China to thank!” – Maxine S. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ‘My wife and I have travelled a lot around the world and used many organizations, WildChina is the best and the attention to details and little attentions made us feel we were dealing with personal friends and not just travel agents and guides. We plan to reuse them for sure.’ – Pierre B — Find out why we receive such great feedback. View our China tours. This week, we are very pleased to have been awarded a TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence as a top rated China tour and activity provider. The award is given to businesses that “consistently achieve outstanding traveler reviews on TripAdvisor” and with 53 reviews rated as ‘Excellent’ (and 3 rated as ‘Very Good’), we fall pretty strongly into that category. We sincerely want to thank all of the wonderful clients who have reviewed us so far and have gained us this recognition. We are so touched by the glowing stories and warm words you have said about us, and are especially grateful for the time that some of you have spent writing very lengthy accounts of all the great things you’ve experienced in China with us. In the words of our Founder, Zhang Mei: “Sometimes, planning a trip can be tedious, but when we receive such thoughtful reviews, all our hard work is worth it. That’s what my team and I live for on a day to day basis, creating memorable experiences.” Thank you for your support so far. We treasure every one of our 53 reviews, however there is still a long way to go to reach the top of the ranks and there are so many more great WildChina stories to be told! If you’ve traveled with us and haven’t done so already, please share your experiences. And for those about to embark on a WildChina journey, please don’t forget to leave your review for us on TripAdvisor after you return so we can help more travelers to experience China differently! Here are some highlights from our reviews: “On our tour, we had experiences – going places and meeting people – that we could never have found, no matter how much time we had taken… Moreover, their pride in their regions and in their roles as guides was evident and infectious: we just wanted to spend more time with them: we were privileged. There was also room for flexibility to make changes to take in our preferences and to see events that we came upon by chance or had been scheduled after we had settled on the original itinerary.” – mn50something, Sydney “Unforgettable. My husband and I had a 12 day trip through the mountainous ethnic regions from Guiyang to Guilin. We came back with a feeling for the culture and people of the area visited which we could never have had on our own. Our guides were knowledgeable, friendly and enjoyable to be with.” ​- ​Traveler8068. Fresno, California “We just returned from 2 weeks in China, and my husband and I can’t stop talking about this trip and our Wild China experience… All of our guides were perfectly suited to each area where they lived and worked. Each brought a love of their village/city and an openness to our questions and requests… All were gems and it felt like we left friends behind when we left China. The Chinese people were warm and excited to meet us. This was a trip of a life time and we have Wild China to thank!” – Maxine S. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ‘My wife and I have travelled a lot around the world and used many organizations, WildChina is the best and the attention to details and little attentions made us feel we were dealing with personal friends and not just travel agents and guides. We plan to reuse them for sure.’ – Pierre B — Find out why we receive such great feedback. View our China tours. This week, we are very pleased to have been awarded a TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence as a top rated China tour and activity provider. The award is given to businesses that “consistently achieve outstanding traveler reviews on TripAdvisor” and with 53 reviews rated as ‘Excellent’ (and 3 rated as ‘Very Good’), we fall pretty strongly into that category. We sincerely want to thank all of the wonderful clients who have reviewed us so far and have gained us this recognition. We are so touched by the glowing stories and warm words you have said about us, and are especially grateful for the time that some of you have spent writing very lengthy accounts of all the great things you’ve experienced in China with us. In the words of our Founder, Zhang Mei: “Sometimes, planning a trip can be tedious, but when we receive such thoughtful reviews, all our hard work is worth it. That’s what my team and I live for on a day to day basis, creating memorable experiences.” Thank you for your support so far. We treasure every one of our 53 reviews, however there is still a long way to go to reach the top of the ranks and there are so many more great WildChina stories to be told! If you’ve traveled with us and haven’t done so already, please share your experiences. And for those about to embark on a WildChina journey, please don’t forget to leave your review for us on TripAdvisor after you return so we can help more travelers to experience China differently! Here are some highlights from our reviews: “On our tour, we had experiences – going places and meeting people – that we could never have found, no matter how much time we had taken… Moreover, their pride in their regions and in their roles as guides was evident and infectious: we just wanted to spend more time with them: we were privileged. There was also room for flexibility to make changes to take in our preferences and to see events that we came upon by chance or had been scheduled after we had settled on the original itinerary.” – mn50something, Sydney “Unforgettable. My husband and I had a 12 day trip through the mountainous ethnic regions from Guiyang to Guilin. We came back with a feeling for the culture and people of the area visited which we could never have had on our own. Our guides were knowledgeable, friendly and enjoyable to be with.” ​- ​Traveler8068. Fresno, California “We just returned from 2 weeks in China, and my husband and I can’t stop talking about this trip and our Wild China experience… All of our guides were perfectly suited to each area where they lived and worked. Each brought a love of their village/city and an openness to our questions and requests… All were gems and it felt like we left friends behind when we left China. The Chinese people were warm and excited to meet us. This was a trip of a life time and we have Wild China to thank!” – Maxine S. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ‘My wife and I have travelled a lot around the world and used many organizations, WildChina is the best and the attention to details and little attentions made us feel we were dealing with personal friends and not just travel agents and guides. We plan to reuse them for sure.’ Find out why we receive such great feedback. View our China tours.