ID: 46923aeaedaabfb2
Title: Top 5 Hotels in Hong Kong | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2016/07/top-5-hotel-choices-hong-kong/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2016-07-22T11:20:48+08:00
Tags: Destinations, Hong Kong and Macau
================================================================================

Hong Kong: apart from being one of the world’s global financial centers, the metropolitan city ranks highly for top-notch standards in its service and hospitality sectors. Many exciting accommodation choices are available, some of which will take you above skyscrapers with drop-dead vistas of the city. Read on for our top 5 picks for Hong Kong hotels. – 5. Langham Hong Kong The stunning foyer of the Langham Hong Kong. Photo via Langham Hotels The Langham Hong Kong recently received the Forbes Travel Guide Five-Star Rating Award and was named one of Travel + Leisure 500 – World Best Hotels. Located in Tsimshatsui, Hong Kong’s exclusive shopping district, the Langham evokes classical British luxury and provides a perfect blend of past and present. The hotel incorporates fine fabrics and silk drapes into its bespoke design. Guests can enjoy an immersive British “Langham Afternoon Tea ” experience with tailor-made Langham Rose tea ware and a special menu created by culinary experts. To satiate your palate, the Langham houses three well-rated restaurants including the three Michellin-starred T’ang Court which serves authentic Cantonese cuisine reflecting the classic timelessness of the Tang Dynasty. The Star Ferry with sensational views of the Victoria Harbor is a short walk away. 4. Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong Inside the Mandarin Oriental’s top-rated restaurant. Photo via Mandarin Oriental If you want an awe-inspiring view of Victoria Harbor as you tuck in for bed, look no farther than the Mandarin Oriental. The Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong is the first and flagship hotel of the Mandarin Oriental hotel group. This iconic hotel is as legendary as the city of Hong Kong itself. It boasts a central location, five-star facilities, and is renowned for its sleek design, impressive service and exquisite blend of luxury and comfort. The style itself is bold and bright, yet retains a cozy charm reminiscent of old Hong Kong. Rooms are well-refurbished and redesigned to maximize space; service is as tip-top as any other luxury hotel in Hong Kong. Gourmands will love the three, Michelin-starred restaurants within the hotel – Pierre, with two stars, the Mandarin Grill and Cantonese restaurant, and Man Wah, each of with one-star. A stay at the Mandarin Oriental is an indulgent getaway from it all. 3. Island Shangri-La Check-in at Island Shangri’La’s opulent lobby. Photo via Island Shangri-La Island Shangri-La is all about old-school opulence – 779 Austrian and Venetian chandeliers bedeck its premises; the largest Chinese silk painting in the world can be observed from the bubble lifts while Fragonard drawings hang on some corridors. Elegant rooms are equipped with plush beds and spacious bathrooms – opt for a harbor-view room and you won’t be disappointed. Dining options include Michelin-starred Summer Palace, which serves Cantonese cuisine, as well as Café TOO, loved by locals for their international buffets on weekends. 2. Upper House The modern chic of the rooms at the Upper House. Photo via the Upper House The Upper House exudes modern Hong Kong style with a uniquely urban feel. The interiors are sumptuously designed by one of England’s top designers and feature bamboo, limestone and plush cushions in warm hues. The rooms, starting from the 38th floor, provide one-of-a-kind views and a respite from the bustling sounds of cars and street vendors down below. Like its sister properties, The Opposite House Beijing and The Temple House in Chengdu, the Upper House perfectly embodies the sleek modernity and urbane cool of the international mega-city. No compromises have been made on the artistic detail of this sophisticated boutique hotel. The Upper House is a great choice for business folk as well as shoppers – the hotel is in the same building as the glitzy Pacific Place mall. 1. Peninsula Hotel The iconic pool at the Peninsula Hotel. Photo via Peninsula Hotel By far the most opulent hotel in Hong Kong, the iconic Peninsula is known as the Grande Dame of the East. This flagship hotel of the Peninsula brand provides guest with a one-of-a-kind, uniquely Hong Kong experience. Upon arrival, guests step into the timeless colonial glamour of a bygone era. Established in 1928, the hotel effortlessly combines the luxury of the past with modern renovations like LED touch wall panels. The spectacular open air Roman-style pool and state-of-the-art fitness center offer unobstructed views of the harbor. Arrive in style in one of the custom “Peninsula Green” Rolls Royces or Mini-Coopers. And our favorite part – WildChina can make you an instant VIP with our PenClub benefits. If all of this luxury hasn’t wowed you yet, take to the air (the Pen is the only hotel with a helipad in Hong Kong) for a world-class view over Victoria Harbor or sightseeing excursions to less visited islands. You’ll never want to leave! — Want to test out the pillows for yourself? Be our guest on a customized Hong Kong: Pearl of the Orient tour and find your favorite home away from home in Hong Kong. Hong Kong: apart from being one of the world’s global financial centers, the metropolitan city ranks highly for top-notch standards in its service and hospitality sectors. Many exciting accommodation choices are available, some of which will take you above skyscrapers with drop-dead vistas of the city. Read on for our top 5 picks for Hong Kong hotels. – 5. Langham Hong Kong The stunning foyer of the Langham Hong Kong. Photo via Langham Hotels The Langham Hong Kong recently received the Forbes Travel Guide Five-Star Rating Award and was named one of Travel + Leisure 500 – World Best Hotels. Located in Tsimshatsui, Hong Kong’s exclusive shopping district, the Langham evokes classical British luxury and provides a perfect blend of past and present. The hotel incorporates fine fabrics and silk drapes into its bespoke design. Guests can enjoy an immersive British “Langham Afternoon Tea ” experience with tailor-made Langham Rose tea ware and a special menu created by culinary experts. To satiate your palate, the Langham houses three well-rated restaurants including the three Michellin-starred T’ang Court which serves authentic Cantonese cuisine reflecting the classic timelessness of the Tang Dynasty. The Star Ferry with sensational views of the Victoria Harbor is a short walk away. 4. Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong Inside the Mandarin Oriental’s top-rated restaurant. Photo via Mandarin Oriental If you want an awe-inspiring view of Victoria Harbor as you tuck in for bed, look no farther than the Mandarin Oriental. The Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong is the first and flagship hotel of the Mandarin Oriental hotel group. This iconic hotel is as legendary as the city of Hong Kong itself. It boasts a central location, five-star facilities, and is renowned for its sleek design, impressive service and exquisite blend of luxury and comfort. The style itself is bold and bright, yet retains a cozy charm reminiscent of old Hong Kong. Rooms are well-refurbished and redesigned to maximize space; service is as tip-top as any other luxury hotel in Hong Kong. Gourmands will love the three, Michelin-starred restaurants within the hotel – Pierre, with two stars, the Mandarin Grill and Cantonese restaurant, and Man Wah, each of with one-star. A stay at the Mandarin Oriental is an indulgent getaway from it all. 3. Island Shangri-La Check-in at Island Shangri’La’s opulent lobby. Photo via Island Shangri-La Island Shangri-La is all about old-school opulence – 779 Austrian and Venetian chandeliers bedeck its premises; the largest Chinese silk painting in the world can be observed from the bubble lifts while Fragonard drawings hang on some corridors. Elegant rooms are equipped with plush beds and spacious bathrooms – opt for a harbor-view room and you won’t be disappointed. Dining options include Michelin-starred Summer Palace, which serves Cantonese cuisine, as well as Café TOO, loved by locals for their international buffets on weekends. 2. Upper House The modern chic of the rooms at the Upper House. Photo via the Upper House The Upper House exudes modern Hong Kong style with a uniquely urban feel. The interiors are sumptuously designed by one of England’s top designers and feature bamboo, limestone and plush cushions in warm hues. The rooms, starting from the 38th floor, provide one-of-a-kind views and a respite from the bustling sounds of cars and street vendors down below. Like its sister properties, The Opposite House Beijing and The Temple House in Chengdu, the Upper House perfectly embodies the sleek modernity and urbane cool of the international mega-city. No compromises have been made on the artistic detail of this sophisticated boutique hotel. The Upper House is a great choice for business folk as well as shoppers – the hotel is in the same building as the glitzy Pacific Place mall. 1. Peninsula Hotel The iconic pool at the Peninsula Hotel. Photo via Peninsula Hotel By far the most opulent hotel in Hong Kong, the iconic Peninsula is known as the Grande Dame of the East. This flagship hotel of the Peninsula brand provides guest with a one-of-a-kind, uniquely Hong Kong experience. Upon arrival, guests step into the timeless colonial glamour of a bygone era. Established in 1928, the hotel effortlessly combines the luxury of the past with modern renovations like LED touch wall panels. The spectacular open air Roman-style pool and state-of-the-art fitness center offer unobstructed views of the harbor. Arrive in style in one of the custom “Peninsula Green” Rolls Royces or Mini-Coopers. And our favorite part – WildChina can make you an instant VIP with our PenClub benefits. If all of this luxury hasn’t wowed you yet, take to the air (the Pen is the only hotel with a helipad in Hong Kong) for a world-class view over Victoria Harbor or sightseeing excursions to less visited islands. You’ll never want to leave! — Want to test out the pillows for yourself? Be our guest on a customized Hong Kong: Pearl of the Orient tour and find your favorite home away from home in Hong Kong. Hong Kong: apart from being one of the world’s global financial centers, the metropolitan city ranks highly for top-notch standards in its service and hospitality sectors. Many exciting accommodation choices are available, some of which will take you above skyscrapers with drop-dead vistas of the city. Read on for our top 5 picks for Hong Kong hotels. The stunning foyer of the Langham Hong Kong. Photo via Langham Hotels The Langham Hong Kong recently received the Forbes Travel Guide Five-Star Rating Award and was named one of Travel + Leisure 500 – World Best Hotels. Located in Tsimshatsui, Hong Kong’s exclusive shopping district, the Langham evokes classical British luxury and provides a perfect blend of past and present. The hotel incorporates fine fabrics and silk drapes into its bespoke design. Guests can enjoy an immersive British “Langham Afternoon Tea ” experience with tailor-made Langham Rose tea ware and a special menu created by culinary experts. To satiate your palate, the Langham houses three well-rated restaurants including the three Michellin-starred T’ang Court which serves authentic Cantonese cuisine reflecting the classic timelessness of the Tang Dynasty. The Star Ferry with sensational views of the Victoria Harbor is a short walk away. 4. Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong Inside the Mandarin Oriental’s top-rated restaurant. Photo via Mandarin Oriental If you want an awe-inspiring view of Victoria Harbor as you tuck in for bed, look no farther than the Mandarin Oriental. The Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong is the first and flagship hotel of the Mandarin Oriental hotel group. This iconic hotel is as legendary as the city of Hong Kong itself. It boasts a central location, five-star facilities, and is renowned for its sleek design, impressive service and exquisite blend of luxury and comfort. The style itself is bold and bright, yet retains a cozy charm reminiscent of old Hong Kong. Rooms are well-refurbished and redesigned to maximize space; service is as tip-top as any other luxury hotel in Hong Kong. Gourmands will love the three, Michelin-starred restaurants within the hotel – Pierre, with two stars, the Mandarin Grill and Cantonese restaurant, and Man Wah, each of with one-star. A stay at the Mandarin Oriental is an indulgent getaway from it all. Check-in at Island Shangri’La’s opulent lobby. Photo via Island Shangri-La Island Shangri-La is all about old-school opulence – 779 Austrian and Venetian chandeliers bedeck its premises; the largest Chinese silk painting in the world can be observed from the bubble lifts while Fragonard drawings hang on some corridors. Elegant rooms are equipped with plush beds and spacious bathrooms – opt for a harbor-view room and you won’t be disappointed. Dining options include Michelin-starred Summer Palace, which serves Cantonese cuisine, as well as Café TOO, loved by locals for their international buffets on weekends. The modern chic of the rooms at the Upper House. Photo via the Upper House The Upper House exudes modern Hong Kong style with a uniquely urban feel. The interiors are sumptuously designed by one of England’s top designers and feature bamboo, limestone and plush cushions in warm hues. The rooms, starting from the 38th floor, provide one-of-a-kind views and a respite from the bustling sounds of cars and street vendors down below. Like its sister properties, The Opposite House Beijing and The Temple House in Chengdu, the Upper House perfectly embodies the sleek modernity and urbane cool of the international mega-city. No compromises have been made on the artistic detail of this sophisticated boutique hotel. The Upper House is a great choice for business folk as well as shoppers – the hotel is in the same building as the glitzy Pacific Place mall. The iconic pool at the Peninsula Hotel. Photo via Peninsula Hotel • By far the most opulent hotel in Hong Kong, the iconic Peninsula is known as the Grande Dame of the East. This flagship hotel of the Peninsula brand provides guest with a one-of-a-kind, uniquely Hong Kong experience. Upon arrival, guests step into the timeless colonial glamour of a bygone era. Established in 1928, the hotel effortlessly combines the luxury of the past with modern renovations like LED touch wall panels. The spectacular open air Roman-style pool and state-of-the-art fitness center offer unobstructed views of the harbor. Arrive in style in one of the custom “Peninsula Green” Rolls Royces or Mini-Coopers. And our favorite part – WildChina can make you an instant VIP with our PenClub benefits. If all of this luxury hasn’t wowed you yet, take to the air (the Pen is the only hotel with a helipad in Hong Kong) for a world-class view over Victoria Harbor or sightseeing excursions to less visited islands. You’ll never want to leave! Want to test out the pillows for yourself? Be our guest on a customized Hong Kong: Pearl of the Orient tour and find your favorite home away from home in Hong Kong.