ID: 5866ee1955aed8bb
Title: A Guide to China Transit Visas | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2025/02/a-guide-to-china-transit-visas/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2025-02-12T14:49:29+08:00
Tags: China Transit Visas, 240-Hour Visa-Free Transit, China Travel Visa, WildChina, Insider Tips
================================================================================

China has expanded its transit visa policy for 2025, making it easier than ever to explore the country during a stopover or as part of a carefully planned journey en route to another destination. Our guide covers what you need to know about China transit visas, how to make the most of the transit visa policy, and answers to the most frequently asked questions. What is a transit visa?What to expect on arrival in ChinaHow WildChina can help you prepareVIP arrival serviceAdditional supportUSA passport holdersUK passport holdersFrequently asked questions What is a transit visa? A transit visa allows travelers to stay in China for up to 240 hours (10 days) while transiting to another country/destination. Unlike a regular tourist visa, which requires advance application and approval, the transit visa is visa-on-arrival — meaning travelers do not need to apply in advance. This offers travelers the flexibility to explore key regions of China during their stopover, without the need for a full tourist visa. What to expect on arrival in China Upon arrival in China, travelers will apply for a transit visa at the immigration counter. As part of the standard immigration process, the officer may ask a few routine questions, such as: The purpose of the visit (it could be for leisure, business, or another reason, as long as you are continuing to a third country) The intended length of stay The final destination and proof of onward travel (such as a flight ticket on your phone) Whether a visa or residence permit is required for entry into the third country (if applicable) Where you plan to stay during your transit period (it is helpful to have proof of hotel bookings, even for a short stay) After the interview, the immigration officer will return the passport with a sticker indicating the port of entry and the type of visa issued. For a 240-hour visa-free transit, this sticker will specify the approved duration of stay. How WildChina can help you prepare While we do not offer visa services, our travel designers are here to assist with everything else. We help ensure that travelers have the support they need to navigate the transit visa process smoothly by securing essential bookings, such as flights, hotel accommodations, and transportation, to meet all visa requirements. VIP arrival service For travelers with transit visas arriving in China through the major ports of entry — Beijing, Shanghai, or Guangzhou — WildChina can arrange VIP meet-and-greet services at the airport. This service includes personalized fast-track assistance through customs, immigration, and onward travel arrangements. Please note that in Shanghai, the only difference for transit visa travelers is that they will not have access to the fast-track lane at border control with the VIP service. Our team will facilitate a smooth transition from the airport to your hotel. Please reach out to us to confirm the availability and details of this service, to ensure it meets your specific needs. Additional support While WildChina does not directly provide visa services, we are happy to connect you with trusted partners who can assist you in obtaining a visa for travel to China. USA passport holders For residents of the following U.S. states and territories, which fall under the jurisdiction of the Chinese Embassy in Washington D.C.: Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington D.C., and West Virginia. We recommend Oasis China Visa Services. Use the following links to access an exclusive WildChina client discount: [English link] [简体中文表格] For residents of all other states and territories, we recommend Visa-n-Beyond.To receive your exclusive WildChina discount, email joseph.lu@visa-n-beyond.com or call(+1) 516-846-2686 and be sure to mention that you’re a WildChina client! UK passport holders We’re thrilled to partner with UK-based travel company VisaToGo to offer one-stop-shop visa services for WildChina clients. The team has years of experience handling visa enquiries within the UK. You only need to fill out a short and easy questionnaire, and a dedicated specialist will handle the rest. WildChina clients can use this link [here] to claim 9% off at checkout. Frequently asked questions Who can visit China with a transit visa? The 240-hour transit visa is currently available to travelers from 54 eligible countries, allowing them to transit through China without requiring a full visa. Passport holders from the following countries are eligible: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United StatesBefore you plan your trip, check for any updates, as this list may change. Who can visit China visa-free? Travelers from these countries do not need any visa (including tourist, transit, or business visas) for short stays: 90 days: Albania, Armenia, Bosnia & Herzevogina, San Morino 60 days: Mauritius 30 days: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Argentina, Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Oman, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay Updated June 2025. We always recommend confirming visa requirements with China’s National Immigration Administration or your local Chinese embassy or consulate. What counts as different arrival and departure destinations? For a transit visa, travelers must arrive in China from one country/destination (A) and depart to a different country/destination (B). For example, for someone traveling from the United States (A) to Japan (B) with a layover in China, if they arrived in China from the US and departed to Japan, they would be eligible for a transit visa. Hong Kong and Taiwan are eligible for arrival (A) or departure (B) destinations valid for the transit visa, as they are treated separately from mainland China for visa purposes. So, for example, traveling from Hong Kong or Taiwan to mainland China and then continuing to a third destination would be considered a valid transit under the 240-hour visa policy. Where can I travel within China with a transit visa? With a transit visa, travelers can explore designated regions of China and travel between these areas. The recent expansion of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy now includes 24 eligible regions, up from 19. Travelers can check here to see which specific areas within these regions are accessible. The eligible regions that travelers can travel between are: Beijing Tianjin Hebei Liaoning Heilongjiang Shanghai Jiangsu Zhejiang Fujian Shandong Henan Hubei Hunan Guangdong Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (including Nanning, Liuzhou, Guilin, Beihai, Wuzhou) Chongqing Sichuan Yunnan Shaanxi Shanxi (Taiyuan and Datong only) Anhui Jiangxi (Nanchang and Jingdezhen only) Hainan Guizhou You can travel between eligible regions using various modes of transportation, including trains, buses, and domestic flights. It is important to ensure that your travel route stays within these regions to comply with the regulations. For official guidelines and the most up-to-date information, you can check the official Chinese government visa website. CIBT can also help guide you through this process. Which ports can I use to enter and exit China for the visa-free transit? You can arrive and depart from any of the 60 eligible ports across 24 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in China as part of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy. Please be aware that travelers arriving by cruise cannot take advantage of this policy. You can check the ports here. Do the entry and exit ports need to be the same? No, the entry and exit ports do not need to be the same, as long as both are eligible ports for the transit visa. Does the arrival and departure flight need to be with the same airline? No, it is not necessary for the arrival and departure flights to be with the same airline. However, travelers must have a confirmed departure flight to a different (third) destination before arriving in China. For more details or to start planning your transit journey through China, get in touch with us. China has expanded its transit visa policy for 2025, making it easier than ever to explore the country during a stopover or as part of a carefully planned journey en route to another destination. Our guide covers what you need to know about China transit visas, how to make the most of the transit visa policy, and answers to the most frequently asked questions. What is a transit visa?What to expect on arrival in ChinaHow WildChina can help you prepareVIP arrival serviceAdditional supportUSA passport holdersUK passport holdersFrequently asked questions What is a transit visa? A transit visa allows travelers to stay in China for up to 240 hours (10 days) while transiting to another country/destination. Unlike a regular tourist visa, which requires advance application and approval, the transit visa is visa-on-arrival — meaning travelers do not need to apply in advance. This offers travelers the flexibility to explore key regions of China during their stopover, without the need for a full tourist visa. What to expect on arrival in China Upon arrival in China, travelers will apply for a transit visa at the immigration counter. As part of the standard immigration process, the officer may ask a few routine questions, such as: The purpose of the visit (it could be for leisure, business, or another reason, as long as you are continuing to a third country) The intended length of stay The final destination and proof of onward travel (such as a flight ticket on your phone) Whether a visa or residence permit is required for entry into the third country (if applicable) Where you plan to stay during your transit period (it is helpful to have proof of hotel bookings, even for a short stay) After the interview, the immigration officer will return the passport with a sticker indicating the port of entry and the type of visa issued. For a 240-hour visa-free transit, this sticker will specify the approved duration of stay. How WildChina can help you prepare While we do not offer visa services, our travel designers are here to assist with everything else. We help ensure that travelers have the support they need to navigate the transit visa process smoothly by securing essential bookings, such as flights, hotel accommodations, and transportation, to meet all visa requirements. VIP arrival service For travelers with transit visas arriving in China through the major ports of entry — Beijing, Shanghai, or Guangzhou — WildChina can arrange VIP meet-and-greet services at the airport. This service includes personalized fast-track assistance through customs, immigration, and onward travel arrangements. Please note that in Shanghai, the only difference for transit visa travelers is that they will not have access to the fast-track lane at border control with the VIP service. Our team will facilitate a smooth transition from the airport to your hotel. Please reach out to us to confirm the availability and details of this service, to ensure it meets your specific needs. Additional support While WildChina does not directly provide visa services, we are happy to connect you with trusted partners who can assist you in obtaining a visa for travel to China. USA passport holders For residents of the following U.S. states and territories, which fall under the jurisdiction of the Chinese Embassy in Washington D.C.: Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington D.C., and West Virginia. We recommend Oasis China Visa Services. Use the following links to access an exclusive WildChina client discount: [English link] [简体中文表格] For residents of all other states and territories, we recommend Visa-n-Beyond.To receive your exclusive WildChina discount, email joseph.lu@visa-n-beyond.com or call(+1) 516-846-2686 and be sure to mention that you’re a WildChina client! UK passport holders We’re thrilled to partner with UK-based travel company VisaToGo to offer one-stop-shop visa services for WildChina clients. The team has years of experience handling visa enquiries within the UK. You only need to fill out a short and easy questionnaire, and a dedicated specialist will handle the rest. WildChina clients can use this link [here] to claim 9% off at checkout. Frequently asked questions Who can visit China with a transit visa? The 240-hour transit visa is currently available to travelers from 54 eligible countries, allowing them to transit through China without requiring a full visa. Passport holders from the following countries are eligible: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United StatesBefore you plan your trip, check for any updates, as this list may change. Who can visit China visa-free? Travelers from these countries do not need any visa (including tourist, transit, or business visas) for short stays: 90 days: Albania, Armenia, Bosnia & Herzevogina, San Morino 60 days: Mauritius 30 days: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Argentina, Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Oman, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay Updated June 2025. We always recommend confirming visa requirements with China’s National Immigration Administration or your local Chinese embassy or consulate. What counts as different arrival and departure destinations? For a transit visa, travelers must arrive in China from one country/destination (A) and depart to a different country/destination (B). For example, for someone traveling from the United States (A) to Japan (B) with a layover in China, if they arrived in China from the US and departed to Japan, they would be eligible for a transit visa. Hong Kong and Taiwan are eligible for arrival (A) or departure (B) destinations valid for the transit visa, as they are treated separately from mainland China for visa purposes. So, for example, traveling from Hong Kong or Taiwan to mainland China and then continuing to a third destination would be considered a valid transit under the 240-hour visa policy. Where can I travel within China with a transit visa? With a transit visa, travelers can explore designated regions of China and travel between these areas. The recent expansion of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy now includes 24 eligible regions, up from 19. Travelers can check here to see which specific areas within these regions are accessible. The eligible regions that travelers can travel between are: Beijing Tianjin Hebei Liaoning Heilongjiang Shanghai Jiangsu Zhejiang Fujian Shandong Henan Hubei Hunan Guangdong Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (including Nanning, Liuzhou, Guilin, Beihai, Wuzhou) Chongqing Sichuan Yunnan Shaanxi Shanxi (Taiyuan and Datong only) Anhui Jiangxi (Nanchang and Jingdezhen only) Hainan Guizhou You can travel between eligible regions using various modes of transportation, including trains, buses, and domestic flights. It is important to ensure that your travel route stays within these regions to comply with the regulations. For official guidelines and the most up-to-date information, you can check the official Chinese government visa website. CIBT can also help guide you through this process. Which ports can I use to enter and exit China for the visa-free transit? You can arrive and depart from any of the 60 eligible ports across 24 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in China as part of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy. Please be aware that travelers arriving by cruise cannot take advantage of this policy. You can check the ports here. Do the entry and exit ports need to be the same? No, the entry and exit ports do not need to be the same, as long as both are eligible ports for the transit visa. Does the arrival and departure flight need to be with the same airline? No, it is not necessary for the arrival and departure flights to be with the same airline. However, travelers must have a confirmed departure flight to a different (third) destination before arriving in China. For more details or to start planning your transit journey through China, get in touch with us. China has expanded its transit visa policy for 2025, making it easier than ever to explore the country during a stopover or as part of a carefully planned journey en route to another destination. Our guide covers what you need to know about China transit visas, how to make the most of the transit visa policy, and answers to the most frequently asked questions. What is a transit visa?What to expect on arrival in ChinaHow WildChina can help you prepareVIP arrival serviceAdditional supportUSA passport holdersUK passport holdersFrequently asked questions What is a transit visa?What to expect on arrival in ChinaHow WildChina can help you prepareVIP arrival serviceAdditional supportUSA passport holdersUK passport holdersFrequently asked questions What is a transit visa?What to expect on arrival in ChinaHow WildChina can help you prepareVIP arrival serviceAdditional supportUSA passport holdersUK passport holdersFrequently asked questions • What is a transit visa? • What to expect on arrival in China • How WildChina can help you prepareVIP arrival service • VIP arrival service • Additional supportUSA passport holdersUK passport holders • USA passport holders • UK passport holders • Frequently asked questions What is a transit visa? A transit visa allows travelers to stay in China for up to 240 hours (10 days) while transiting to another country/destination. Unlike a regular tourist visa, which requires advance application and approval, the transit visa is visa-on-arrival — meaning travelers do not need to apply in advance. This offers travelers the flexibility to explore key regions of China during their stopover, without the need for a full tourist visa. What to expect on arrival in China Upon arrival in China, travelers will apply for a transit visa at the immigration counter. As part of the standard immigration process, the officer may ask a few routine questions, such as: • The purpose of the visit (it could be for leisure, business, or another reason, as long as you are continuing to a third country) • The intended length of stay • The final destination and proof of onward travel (such as a flight ticket on your phone) • Whether a visa or residence permit is required for entry into the third country (if applicable) • Where you plan to stay during your transit period (it is helpful to have proof of hotel bookings, even for a short stay) After the interview, the immigration officer will return the passport with a sticker indicating the port of entry and the type of visa issued. For a 240-hour visa-free transit, this sticker will specify the approved duration of stay. How WildChina can help you prepare While we do not offer visa services, our travel designers are here to assist with everything else. We help ensure that travelers have the support they need to navigate the transit visa process smoothly by securing essential bookings, such as flights, hotel accommodations, and transportation, to meet all visa requirements. For travelers with transit visas arriving in China through the major ports of entry — Beijing, Shanghai, or Guangzhou — WildChina can arrange VIP meet-and-greet services at the airport. This service includes personalized fast-track assistance through customs, immigration, and onward travel arrangements. Please note that in Shanghai, the only difference for transit visa travelers is that they will not have access to the fast-track lane at border control with the VIP service. Our team will facilitate a smooth transition from the airport to your hotel. Please reach out to us to confirm the availability and details of this service, to ensure it meets your specific needs. While WildChina does not directly provide visa services, we are happy to connect you with trusted partners who can assist you in obtaining a visa for travel to China. For residents of the following U.S. states and territories, which fall under the jurisdiction of the Chinese Embassy in Washington D.C.: Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington D.C., and West Virginia. We recommend Oasis China Visa Services. Use the following links to access an exclusive WildChina client discount: [English link] [简体中文表格] For residents of all other states and territories, we recommend Visa-n-Beyond.To receive your exclusive WildChina discount, email joseph.lu@visa-n-beyond.com or call(+1) 516-846-2686 and be sure to mention that you’re a WildChina client! We’re thrilled to partner with UK-based travel company VisaToGo to offer one-stop-shop visa services for WildChina clients. The team has years of experience handling visa enquiries within the UK. You only need to fill out a short and easy questionnaire, and a dedicated specialist will handle the rest. WildChina clients can use this link [here] to claim 9% off at checkout. Frequently asked questions Who can visit China with a transit visa? The 240-hour transit visa is currently available to travelers from 54 eligible countries, allowing them to transit through China without requiring a full visa. Passport holders from the following countries are eligible: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United StatesBefore you plan your trip, check for any updates, as this list may change. Who can visit China with a transit visa? The 240-hour transit visa is currently available to travelers from 54 eligible countries, allowing them to transit through China without requiring a full visa. Passport holders from the following countries are eligible: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United StatesBefore you plan your trip, check for any updates, as this list may change. Who can visit China with a transit visa? Who can visit China with a transit visa? The 240-hour transit visa is currently available to travelers from 54 eligible countries, allowing them to transit through China without requiring a full visa. Passport holders from the following countries are eligible: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United StatesBefore you plan your trip, check for any updates, as this list may change. The 240-hour transit visa is currently available to travelers from 54 eligible countries, allowing them to transit through China without requiring a full visa. Passport holders from the following countries are eligible: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United StatesBefore you plan your trip, check for any updates, as this list may change. Who can visit China visa-free? Travelers from these countries do not need any visa (including tourist, transit, or business visas) for short stays: 90 days: Albania, Armenia, Bosnia & Herzevogina, San Morino 60 days: Mauritius 30 days: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Argentina, Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Oman, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay Updated June 2025. We always recommend confirming visa requirements with China’s National Immigration Administration or your local Chinese embassy or consulate. Who can visit China visa-free? Travelers from these countries do not need any visa (including tourist, transit, or business visas) for short stays: 90 days: Albania, Armenia, Bosnia & Herzevogina, San Morino 60 days: Mauritius 30 days: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Argentina, Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Oman, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay Updated June 2025. We always recommend confirming visa requirements with China’s National Immigration Administration or your local Chinese embassy or consulate. Who can visit China visa-free? Who can visit China visa-free? Travelers from these countries do not need any visa (including tourist, transit, or business visas) for short stays: 90 days: Albania, Armenia, Bosnia & Herzevogina, San Morino 60 days: Mauritius 30 days: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Argentina, Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Oman, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay Updated June 2025. We always recommend confirming visa requirements with China’s National Immigration Administration or your local Chinese embassy or consulate. Travelers from these countries do not need any visa (including tourist, transit, or business visas) for short stays: 90 days: Albania, Armenia, Bosnia & Herzevogina, San Morino 30 days: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Argentina, Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Oman, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay Updated June 2025. We always recommend confirming visa requirements with China’s National Immigration Administration or your local Chinese embassy or consulate. What counts as different arrival and departure destinations? For a transit visa, travelers must arrive in China from one country/destination (A) and depart to a different country/destination (B). For example, for someone traveling from the United States (A) to Japan (B) with a layover in China, if they arrived in China from the US and departed to Japan, they would be eligible for a transit visa. Hong Kong and Taiwan are eligible for arrival (A) or departure (B) destinations valid for the transit visa, as they are treated separately from mainland China for visa purposes. So, for example, traveling from Hong Kong or Taiwan to mainland China and then continuing to a third destination would be considered a valid transit under the 240-hour visa policy. What counts as different arrival and departure destinations? For a transit visa, travelers must arrive in China from one country/destination (A) and depart to a different country/destination (B). For example, for someone traveling from the United States (A) to Japan (B) with a layover in China, if they arrived in China from the US and departed to Japan, they would be eligible for a transit visa. Hong Kong and Taiwan are eligible for arrival (A) or departure (B) destinations valid for the transit visa, as they are treated separately from mainland China for visa purposes. So, for example, traveling from Hong Kong or Taiwan to mainland China and then continuing to a third destination would be considered a valid transit under the 240-hour visa policy. What counts as different arrival and departure destinations? What counts as different arrival and departure destinations? For a transit visa, travelers must arrive in China from one country/destination (A) and depart to a different country/destination (B). For example, for someone traveling from the United States (A) to Japan (B) with a layover in China, if they arrived in China from the US and departed to Japan, they would be eligible for a transit visa. Hong Kong and Taiwan are eligible for arrival (A) or departure (B) destinations valid for the transit visa, as they are treated separately from mainland China for visa purposes. So, for example, traveling from Hong Kong or Taiwan to mainland China and then continuing to a third destination would be considered a valid transit under the 240-hour visa policy. For a transit visa, travelers must arrive in China from one country/destination (A) and depart to a different country/destination (B). For example, for someone traveling from the United States (A) to Japan (B) with a layover in China, if they arrived in China from the US and departed to Japan, they would be eligible for a transit visa. Hong Kong and Taiwan are eligible for arrival (A) or departure (B) destinations valid for the transit visa, as they are treated separately from mainland China for visa purposes. So, for example, traveling from Hong Kong or Taiwan to mainland China and then continuing to a third destination would be considered a valid transit under the 240-hour visa policy. Where can I travel within China with a transit visa? With a transit visa, travelers can explore designated regions of China and travel between these areas. The recent expansion of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy now includes 24 eligible regions, up from 19. Travelers can check here to see which specific areas within these regions are accessible. The eligible regions that travelers can travel between are: Beijing Tianjin Hebei Liaoning Heilongjiang Shanghai Jiangsu Zhejiang Fujian Shandong Henan Hubei Hunan Guangdong Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (including Nanning, Liuzhou, Guilin, Beihai, Wuzhou) Chongqing Sichuan Yunnan Shaanxi Shanxi (Taiyuan and Datong only) Anhui Jiangxi (Nanchang and Jingdezhen only) Hainan Guizhou You can travel between eligible regions using various modes of transportation, including trains, buses, and domestic flights. It is important to ensure that your travel route stays within these regions to comply with the regulations. For official guidelines and the most up-to-date information, you can check the official Chinese government visa website. CIBT can also help guide you through this process. Where can I travel within China with a transit visa? With a transit visa, travelers can explore designated regions of China and travel between these areas. The recent expansion of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy now includes 24 eligible regions, up from 19. Travelers can check here to see which specific areas within these regions are accessible. The eligible regions that travelers can travel between are: Beijing Tianjin Hebei Liaoning Heilongjiang Shanghai Jiangsu Zhejiang Fujian Shandong Henan Hubei Hunan Guangdong Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (including Nanning, Liuzhou, Guilin, Beihai, Wuzhou) Chongqing Sichuan Yunnan Shaanxi Shanxi (Taiyuan and Datong only) Anhui Jiangxi (Nanchang and Jingdezhen only) Hainan Guizhou You can travel between eligible regions using various modes of transportation, including trains, buses, and domestic flights. It is important to ensure that your travel route stays within these regions to comply with the regulations. For official guidelines and the most up-to-date information, you can check the official Chinese government visa website. CIBT can also help guide you through this process. Where can I travel within China with a transit visa? Where can I travel within China with a transit visa? With a transit visa, travelers can explore designated regions of China and travel between these areas. The recent expansion of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy now includes 24 eligible regions, up from 19. Travelers can check here to see which specific areas within these regions are accessible. The eligible regions that travelers can travel between are: Beijing Tianjin Hebei Liaoning Heilongjiang Shanghai Jiangsu Zhejiang Fujian Shandong Henan Hubei Hunan Guangdong Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (including Nanning, Liuzhou, Guilin, Beihai, Wuzhou) Chongqing Sichuan Yunnan Shaanxi Shanxi (Taiyuan and Datong only) Anhui Jiangxi (Nanchang and Jingdezhen only) Hainan Guizhou You can travel between eligible regions using various modes of transportation, including trains, buses, and domestic flights. It is important to ensure that your travel route stays within these regions to comply with the regulations. For official guidelines and the most up-to-date information, you can check the official Chinese government visa website. CIBT can also help guide you through this process. With a transit visa, travelers can explore designated regions of China and travel between these areas. The recent expansion of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy now includes 24 eligible regions, up from 19. Travelers can check here to see which specific areas within these regions are accessible. The eligible regions that travelers can travel between are: • Beijing • Tianjin • Liaoning • Heilongjiang • Shanghai • Jiangsu • Zhejiang • Fujian • Shandong • Guangdong • Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (including Nanning, Liuzhou, Guilin, Beihai, Wuzhou) • Chongqing • Sichuan • Yunnan • Shaanxi • Shanxi (Taiyuan and Datong only) • Jiangxi (Nanchang and Jingdezhen only) • Hainan • Guizhou You can travel between eligible regions using various modes of transportation, including trains, buses, and domestic flights. It is important to ensure that your travel route stays within these regions to comply with the regulations. For official guidelines and the most up-to-date information, you can check the official Chinese government visa website. CIBT can also help guide you through this process. Which ports can I use to enter and exit China for the visa-free transit? You can arrive and depart from any of the 60 eligible ports across 24 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in China as part of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy. Please be aware that travelers arriving by cruise cannot take advantage of this policy. You can check the ports here. Do the entry and exit ports need to be the same? No, the entry and exit ports do not need to be the same, as long as both are eligible ports for the transit visa. Which ports can I use to enter and exit China for the visa-free transit? You can arrive and depart from any of the 60 eligible ports across 24 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in China as part of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy. Please be aware that travelers arriving by cruise cannot take advantage of this policy. You can check the ports here. Which ports can I use to enter and exit China for the visa-free transit? Which ports can I use to enter and exit China for the visa-free transit? You can arrive and depart from any of the 60 eligible ports across 24 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in China as part of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy. Please be aware that travelers arriving by cruise cannot take advantage of this policy. You can check the ports here. You can arrive and depart from any of the 60 eligible ports across 24 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in China as part of the 240-hour visa-free transit policy. Please be aware that travelers arriving by cruise cannot take advantage of this policy. You can check the ports here. Do the entry and exit ports need to be the same? No, the entry and exit ports do not need to be the same, as long as both are eligible ports for the transit visa. Do the entry and exit ports need to be the same? Do the entry and exit ports need to be the same? No, the entry and exit ports do not need to be the same, as long as both are eligible ports for the transit visa. No, the entry and exit ports do not need to be the same, as long as both are eligible ports for the transit visa. Does the arrival and departure flight need to be with the same airline? No, it is not necessary for the arrival and departure flights to be with the same airline. However, travelers must have a confirmed departure flight to a different (third) destination before arriving in China. Does the arrival and departure flight need to be with the same airline? No, it is not necessary for the arrival and departure flights to be with the same airline. However, travelers must have a confirmed departure flight to a different (third) destination before arriving in China. Does the arrival and departure flight need to be with the same airline? Does the arrival and departure flight need to be with the same airline? No, it is not necessary for the arrival and departure flights to be with the same airline. However, travelers must have a confirmed departure flight to a different (third) destination before arriving in China. No, it is not necessary for the arrival and departure flights to be with the same airline. However, travelers must have a confirmed departure flight to a different (third) destination before arriving in China. For more details or to start planning your transit journey through China, get in touch with us.