ID: 6a3e48be1115feb2
Title: Rowing-Inspired Shanghai Winter Camp For Students | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2020/11/rowing-inspired-shanghai-winter-camp-for-students/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2020-11-23T13:23:07+08:00
Tags: Students, Rowing, Experiential Education Programs, Shanghai, WildChina Education, Winter Camps, Education Travel
================================================================================

Here at WildChina, we specialize in creating life-changing experiences. We understand the importance of immersion when it comes to learning and in our education programs, we design opportunities for students to step outside the restrictions of a classroom and sit firmly in the driving seat of their education. Together with Deep Dive and Tokimaker, WildChina Education is excited to launch a unique 7-day Rowing x STEAM winter camp in Shanghai – designed to help students discover a new sport and apply interdisciplinary project-based learning. Students gain hands-on experience in developing their own engineering project and explore the key techniques to unlocking optimal productivity – all while having fun and staying active. Read on to learn more about this action-packed camp and get in touch for more details and registration. Camp Highlights Students spend four days learning how to row with professional athletes and instructors. Rowing Course Over four days, students will learn the basics of rowing, with on-land and on-water practice. They’ll receive personalized instruction on how to develop a safe stroke, build endurance and coordination, and practice teamwork with their peers. At the end of the camp, students will put their skills and training to the test by competing in a mini rowing regatta. Students learn how to use a CPU to build their boat prototype. Rowing-Themed STEAM Learning Interdisciplinary STEAM learning and the competitive sport converge in this two-day, immersive workshop series. Under the guidance of engineers and teachers, students will apply the concepts of design thinking, rapid prototyping, and digital manufacturing to develop their own boat prototype. They’ll gain hands-on foundational knowledge of engineering in their use of sustainable materials, programming, and robotics. Over the course of two days, students will immerse in a rewarding and holistic idea-to-design process focused on problem-solving, data visualization, innovation, and multidisciplinary applications. They’ll then demonstrate their prototype in a final exhibition. Deep Ocean Game Workshop In this one-of-a-kind workshop, students will discover the fundamentals of flow, an optimal state of consciousness put forth by renowned psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. Students will engage in a variety of social-emotional learning focused on self-awareness, self-management, and responsible decision-making. After this workshop, they’ll unlock new lifelong skills in mindfulness, productivity, and creativity that they can apply in and out of the classroom. Our Experts Registration & Fees Early-Bird Price: 9,280 RMB per student 8,680 RMB per student Dates: Session 1: December 24-30, 2020 Session 2: January 28 to February 3, 2021 Age range: 11-16 years old (All participants must be taller than 1.35m) Price includes: Enrollment in the Rowing x STEAM Winter CampCertification of completion issued by WildChina and Deep DiveTake home the STEAM devices you build (worth 1,000RMB)Entry to win a grand prize (prize value: 1,200RMB) To register: Contact us through our official WeChat account or email education@wildchina.com to receive a Winter Camp information booklet and sign upEarly-bird pricing lasts through December 5th (for Session 1) and January 5th (for Session 2). After the respective dates, regular pricing applies. Bookings will be taken until two weeks prior to trip departure We’ll run this program with a minimum of 12 participants and a maximum of 48 participants 1,200 RMB per person is required to hold a place, due two weeks prior to program departure (can be paid in USD or RMB, through WeChat, Alipay, or bank transfer) Full payment is due one week before departure Uncompromising safety Your student’s health and safety remain our number one priority. Our dedicated health and safety team will be working with our academic team every step of the way to ensure that students not only learn and have fun but also stay safe and healthy throughout the trip. Our program leaders and staff have up–to–date first-aid training, as well as COVID-19-specific training. For more detailed information on our latest measures, see wildchina.com/health-and-safety. Here at WildChina, we specialize in creating life-changing experiences. We understand the importance of immersion when it comes to learning and in our education programs, we design opportunities for students to step outside the restrictions of a classroom and sit firmly in the driving seat of their education. Together with Deep Dive and Tokimaker, WildChina Education is excited to launch a unique 7-day Rowing x STEAM winter camp in Shanghai – designed to help students discover a new sport and apply interdisciplinary project-based learning. Students gain hands-on experience in developing their own engineering project and explore the key techniques to unlocking optimal productivity – all while having fun and staying active. Read on to learn more about this action-packed camp and get in touch for more details and registration. Camp Highlights Students spend four days learning how to row with professional athletes and instructors. Rowing Course Over four days, students will learn the basics of rowing, with on-land and on-water practice. They’ll receive personalized instruction on how to develop a safe stroke, build endurance and coordination, and practice teamwork with their peers. At the end of the camp, students will put their skills and training to the test by competing in a mini rowing regatta. Students learn how to use a CPU to build their boat prototype. Rowing-Themed STEAM Learning Interdisciplinary STEAM learning and the competitive sport converge in this two-day, immersive workshop series. Under the guidance of engineers and teachers, students will apply the concepts of design thinking, rapid prototyping, and digital manufacturing to develop their own boat prototype. They’ll gain hands-on foundational knowledge of engineering in their use of sustainable materials, programming, and robotics. Over the course of two days, students will immerse in a rewarding and holistic idea-to-design process focused on problem-solving, data visualization, innovation, and multidisciplinary applications. They’ll then demonstrate their prototype in a final exhibition. Deep Ocean Game Workshop In this one-of-a-kind workshop, students will discover the fundamentals of flow, an optimal state of consciousness put forth by renowned psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. Students will engage in a variety of social-emotional learning focused on self-awareness, self-management, and responsible decision-making. After this workshop, they’ll unlock new lifelong skills in mindfulness, productivity, and creativity that they can apply in and out of the classroom. Our Experts Registration & Fees Early-Bird Price: 9,280 RMB per student 8,680 RMB per student Dates: Session 1: December 24-30, 2020 Session 2: January 28 to February 3, 2021 Age range: 11-16 years old (All participants must be taller than 1.35m) Price includes: Enrollment in the Rowing x STEAM Winter CampCertification of completion issued by WildChina and Deep DiveTake home the STEAM devices you build (worth 1,000RMB)Entry to win a grand prize (prize value: 1,200RMB) To register: Contact us through our official WeChat account or email education@wildchina.com to receive a Winter Camp information booklet and sign upEarly-bird pricing lasts through December 5th (for Session 1) and January 5th (for Session 2). After the respective dates, regular pricing applies. Bookings will be taken until two weeks prior to trip departure We’ll run this program with a minimum of 12 participants and a maximum of 48 participants 1,200 RMB per person is required to hold a place, due two weeks prior to program departure (can be paid in USD or RMB, through WeChat, Alipay, or bank transfer) Full payment is due one week before departure Uncompromising safety Your student’s health and safety remain our number one priority. Our dedicated health and safety team will be working with our academic team every step of the way to ensure that students not only learn and have fun but also stay safe and healthy throughout the trip. Our program leaders and staff have up–to–date first-aid training, as well as COVID-19-specific training. For more detailed information on our latest measures, see wildchina.com/health-and-safety. Here at WildChina, we specialize in creating life-changing experiences. We understand the importance of immersion when it comes to learning and in our education programs, we design opportunities for students to step outside the restrictions of a classroom and sit firmly in the driving seat of their education. Together with Deep Dive and Tokimaker, WildChina Education is excited to launch a unique 7-day Rowing x STEAM winter camp in Shanghai – designed to help students discover a new sport and apply interdisciplinary project-based learning. Students gain hands-on experience in developing their own engineering project and explore the key techniques to unlocking optimal productivity – all while having fun and staying active. Read on to learn more about this action-packed camp and get in touch for more details and registration. Students spend four days learning how to row with professional athletes and instructors. Over four days, students will learn the basics of rowing, with on-land and on-water practice. They’ll receive personalized instruction on how to develop a safe stroke, build endurance and coordination, and practice teamwork with their peers. At the end of the camp, students will put their skills and training to the test by competing in a mini rowing regatta. Rowing-Themed STEAM Learning Interdisciplinary STEAM learning and the competitive sport converge in this two-day, immersive workshop series. Under the guidance of engineers and teachers, students will apply the concepts of design thinking, rapid prototyping, and digital manufacturing to develop their own boat prototype. They’ll gain hands-on foundational knowledge of engineering in their use of sustainable materials, programming, and robotics. Over the course of two days, students will immerse in a rewarding and holistic idea-to-design process focused on problem-solving, data visualization, innovation, and multidisciplinary applications. They’ll then demonstrate their prototype in a final exhibition. Deep Ocean Game Workshop In this one-of-a-kind workshop, students will discover the fundamentals of flow, an optimal state of consciousness put forth by renowned psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. Students will engage in a variety of social-emotional learning focused on self-awareness, self-management, and responsible decision-making. After this workshop, they’ll unlock new lifelong skills in mindfulness, productivity, and creativity that they can apply in and out of the classroom. 9,280 RMB per student 8,680 RMB per student Session 1: December 24-30, 2020 Session 2: January 28 to February 3, 2021 11-16 years old (All participants must be taller than 1.35m) • Enrollment in the Rowing x STEAM Winter Camp • Certification of completion issued by WildChina and Deep Dive • Take home the STEAM devices you build (worth 1,000RMB) • Entry to win a grand prize (prize value: 1,200RMB) • Contact us through our official WeChat account or email education@wildchina.com to receive a Winter Camp information booklet and sign up • Early-bird pricing lasts through December 5th (for Session 1) and January 5th (for Session 2). After the respective dates, regular pricing applies. • Bookings will be taken until two weeks prior to trip departure • We’ll run this program with a minimum of 12 participants and a maximum of 48 participants • 1,200 RMB per person is required to hold a place, due two weeks prior to program departure (can be paid in USD or RMB, through WeChat, Alipay, or bank transfer) • Full payment is due one week before departure Uncompromising safety Your student’s health and safety remain our number one priority. Our dedicated health and safety team will be working with our academic team every step of the way to ensure that students not only learn and have fun but also stay safe and healthy throughout the trip. Our program leaders and staff have up–to–date first-aid training, as well as COVID-19-specific training. For more detailed information on our latest measures, see wildchina.com/health-and-safety.