ID: 7e52bcb5d90b5dba
Title: People-Focused Business: Going Local and Giving Back | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2023/08/giving-back/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2023-08-28T18:15:11+08:00
Tags: WildChina, Sustainable Travel
================================================================================

On the ground, on our trips and in the office, our people are our focus. All of our guides and drivers are locals to the areas in which they work, and in our offices, 90% of our staff are Chinese. Our experiences feature lesser-known cultural activities led by local artisans and craftsmen/women, and we are always surveying new local boutiques to give our travelers the best accommodation options possible in every destination while supporting local entrepreneurs. We celebrate the diversity and rich heritage of our partners by cooperating with local businesses and platforming Chinese traditions in every element of what we do.​ WildChina Peking Opera performance in Beijing Our commitment to giving back, however, is not just limited to our operations and our staff. Since 2015, WildChina Corporate Services has been the organizing sponsor of Chi Fan for Charity (CFFC), China’s largest charity dining event which takes place annually in Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai and Hong Kong. Over the last 8 years, the event has raised 10 million RMB (1.4 million USD) for over 30 different charities across China. MJ presenting the 2022 CFFC check to Agape Family Life House While every year working with this event is deeply impactful, the last three years, throughout the pandemic, took on a new level of importance for us. Pandemic sentiment was low and the need for good seemed greater than ever. The urban communities rose to the call, and from 2020 to 2023, Chi Fan for Charity raised an entire 2.6 million RMB (360,000 USD) across four events. We are looking forward to Chi Fan for Charity’s 15th anniversary event next year and are elated to announce that WildChina Corporate Service’s Director MJ Wang has taken the position of CFFC Chairman, where he will work closely with the presidents and committee teams in each venue city to oversee the organization and operations of the event. Interested in getting involved? Get in touch! WildChina team at CFFC 2022 Some of the CFFC beneficiaries from the last few years are as follows: Agape Family Life House is a foster home and care center for orphans with special needs in Langfang, Hebei. The home specializes in medical treatment and care for children with various disabilities including Osteogenesis Imperfecta (brittle bone disease). Currently the home is housing around 29 orphans aging 1.5 to 27, with the aim of eventually placing them into the care of adoptive parents or raising them into adulthood. Their onsite bakery Bread of Life was created to help support the orphanage with its financial difficulties and teach the orphans basic life skills needed to support themselves in their futures. One School (壹个村小), founded in 2007, is committed to the development of rural education assistance by providing “one-to-one” scholarship and growth support for teenagers in rural southwest China. It was established by volunteers and the administrative funds are all self-financed. 100% of all social donations are sent to rural students through the organization. From Our Eyes (乡村之眼 )is a provincial-level private non-enterprise registered with the Yunnan Civil Affairs Department since 2015. In cooperation with rural community partners in western China, FOE promotes videography as a method of cultural preservation and education, advocacy for local ecological protection and promotion of sustainable rural development and dialogue between the East and the West. FOE’s goal is to grow into a service and support platform in order to solve social problems systematically and in scale through participatory education. United Foundation for China’s Health (UFCH) was created by United Family Healthcare (UFH) and UFH Founder, Roberta Lipson. The foundation was officially established as a Charity Organization in 2018. UFCH is committed to providing medical care for China’s most disadvantaged populations, including the poor, those with disabilities, those in very rural areas, and those living on the fringe of society such as migrants and the homeless. In 2021, UFCH proudly earned recognition as an AAAA charity organization. UFCH’s Charity Medical Program works closely with 40+ charity partners in China to provide life-saving surgeries, emergency care and general medical support to those most in need. On the ground, on our trips and in the office, our people are our focus. All of our guides and drivers are locals to the areas in which they work, and in our offices, 90% of our staff are Chinese. Our experiences feature lesser-known cultural activities led by local artisans and craftsmen/women, and we are always surveying new local boutiques to give our travelers the best accommodation options possible in every destination while supporting local entrepreneurs. We celebrate the diversity and rich heritage of our partners by cooperating with local businesses and platforming Chinese traditions in every element of what we do.​ WildChina Peking Opera performance in Beijing Our commitment to giving back, however, is not just limited to our operations and our staff. Since 2015, WildChina Corporate Services has been the organizing sponsor of Chi Fan for Charity (CFFC), China’s largest charity dining event which takes place annually in Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai and Hong Kong. Over the last 8 years, the event has raised 10 million RMB (1.4 million USD) for over 30 different charities across China. MJ presenting the 2022 CFFC check to Agape Family Life House While every year working with this event is deeply impactful, the last three years, throughout the pandemic, took on a new level of importance for us. Pandemic sentiment was low and the need for good seemed greater than ever. The urban communities rose to the call, and from 2020 to 2023, Chi Fan for Charity raised an entire 2.6 million RMB (360,000 USD) across four events. We are looking forward to Chi Fan for Charity’s 15th anniversary event next year and are elated to announce that WildChina Corporate Service’s Director MJ Wang has taken the position of CFFC Chairman, where he will work closely with the presidents and committee teams in each venue city to oversee the organization and operations of the event. Interested in getting involved? Get in touch! WildChina team at CFFC 2022 Some of the CFFC beneficiaries from the last few years are as follows: Agape Family Life House is a foster home and care center for orphans with special needs in Langfang, Hebei. The home specializes in medical treatment and care for children with various disabilities including Osteogenesis Imperfecta (brittle bone disease). Currently the home is housing around 29 orphans aging 1.5 to 27, with the aim of eventually placing them into the care of adoptive parents or raising them into adulthood. Their onsite bakery Bread of Life was created to help support the orphanage with its financial difficulties and teach the orphans basic life skills needed to support themselves in their futures. One School (壹个村小), founded in 2007, is committed to the development of rural education assistance by providing “one-to-one” scholarship and growth support for teenagers in rural southwest China. It was established by volunteers and the administrative funds are all self-financed. 100% of all social donations are sent to rural students through the organization. From Our Eyes (乡村之眼 )is a provincial-level private non-enterprise registered with the Yunnan Civil Affairs Department since 2015. In cooperation with rural community partners in western China, FOE promotes videography as a method of cultural preservation and education, advocacy for local ecological protection and promotion of sustainable rural development and dialogue between the East and the West. FOE’s goal is to grow into a service and support platform in order to solve social problems systematically and in scale through participatory education. United Foundation for China’s Health (UFCH) was created by United Family Healthcare (UFH) and UFH Founder, Roberta Lipson. The foundation was officially established as a Charity Organization in 2018. UFCH is committed to providing medical care for China’s most disadvantaged populations, including the poor, those with disabilities, those in very rural areas, and those living on the fringe of society such as migrants and the homeless. In 2021, UFCH proudly earned recognition as an AAAA charity organization. UFCH’s Charity Medical Program works closely with 40+ charity partners in China to provide life-saving surgeries, emergency care and general medical support to those most in need. On the ground, on our trips and in the office, our people are our focus. All of our guides and drivers are locals to the areas in which they work, and in our offices, 90% of our staff are Chinese. Our experiences feature lesser-known cultural activities led by local artisans and craftsmen/women, and we are always surveying new local boutiques to give our travelers the best accommodation options possible in every destination while supporting local entrepreneurs. We celebrate the diversity and rich heritage of our partners by cooperating with local businesses and platforming Chinese traditions in every element of what we do.​ Our commitment to giving back, however, is not just limited to our operations and our staff. Since 2015, WildChina Corporate Services has been the organizing sponsor of Chi Fan for Charity (CFFC), China’s largest charity dining event which takes place annually in Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai and Hong Kong. Over the last 8 years, the event has raised 10 million RMB (1.4 million USD) for over 30 different charities across China. MJ presenting the 2022 CFFC check to Agape Family Life House While every year working with this event is deeply impactful, the last three years, throughout the pandemic, took on a new level of importance for us. Pandemic sentiment was low and the need for good seemed greater than ever. The urban communities rose to the call, and from 2020 to 2023, Chi Fan for Charity raised an entire 2.6 million RMB (360,000 USD) across four events. We are looking forward to Chi Fan for Charity’s 15th anniversary event next year and are elated to announce that WildChina Corporate Service’s Director MJ Wang has taken the position of CFFC Chairman, where he will work closely with the presidents and committee teams in each venue city to oversee the organization and operations of the event. Interested in getting involved? Get in touch! Some of the CFFC beneficiaries from the last few years are as follows: Agape Family Life House is a foster home and care center for orphans with special needs in Langfang, Hebei. The home specializes in medical treatment and care for children with various disabilities including Osteogenesis Imperfecta (brittle bone disease). Currently the home is housing around 29 orphans aging 1.5 to 27, with the aim of eventually placing them into the care of adoptive parents or raising them into adulthood. Their onsite bakery Bread of Life was created to help support the orphanage with its financial difficulties and teach the orphans basic life skills needed to support themselves in their futures. One School (壹个村小), founded in 2007, is committed to the development of rural education assistance by providing “one-to-one” scholarship and growth support for teenagers in rural southwest China. It was established by volunteers and the administrative funds are all self-financed. 100% of all social donations are sent to rural students through the organization. From Our Eyes (乡村之眼 )is a provincial-level private non-enterprise registered with the Yunnan Civil Affairs Department since 2015. In cooperation with rural community partners in western China, FOE promotes videography as a method of cultural preservation and education, advocacy for local ecological protection and promotion of sustainable rural development and dialogue between the East and the West. FOE’s goal is to grow into a service and support platform in order to solve social problems systematically and in scale through participatory education. United Foundation for China’s Health (UFCH) was created by United Family Healthcare (UFH) and UFH Founder, Roberta Lipson. The foundation was officially established as a Charity Organization in 2018. UFCH is committed to providing medical care for China’s most disadvantaged populations, including the poor, those with disabilities, those in very rural areas, and those living on the fringe of society such as migrants and the homeless. In 2021, UFCH proudly earned recognition as an AAAA charity organization. UFCH’s Charity Medical Program works closely with 40+ charity partners in China to provide life-saving surgeries, emergency care and general medical support to those most in need.