ID: 28b0e2746144eaa1
Title: Episode 6: Tea in China | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2021/06/episode-6-tea-in-china/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2021-06-22T14:38:54+08:00
Tags: Tea in China, Ancient Tea Horse Road, Chinese tea, Jeff Fuchs, Podcast
================================================================================

For our sixth episode, we talk with Jeff Fuchs, a long-time WildChina friend, and a globally-recognized expert on tea. Jeff is also a pioneering explorer being the first Westerner to walk the 6000 some miles of the ancient tea horse road through the Himalayas. Today we’ll be talking with him about tea in China. To cover tea in China, a country very much steeped in the culture and history of tea drinking, we are speaking with Jeff Fuchs. Jeff is an explorer, author, and tea expert, voted one of Canada’s ‘Greatest Explorers’ by the Royal Canadian Geographic Society. He was the first documented westerner to have travelled the legendary Tea Horse Road, the nomadic Route of Salt ‘Tsa-Lam’, and the ‘Hor-Lam’, the Route of Pashmina through Ladakh. Jeff has led or been a part of over 30 expeditions in the Himalayas, chronicling both the fading oral narratives and the declining ‘Himalayan Water Towers’, the glaciers. Jeff is also the author of The Ancient Tea Horse Road, a chronicle of his journey along the Himalayan trade route, and he’s the inspiration for, and host of, the award-winning documentary ‘The Tea Explorer’. Episode Overview: 01:04 – Jeff’s background with tea 03:45 – Tea in Yunnan 07:20 – The roots of tea in China and the Tea Horse Road 12:02 – Tea regions in China 14:03 – The process of making tea 17:43 – The Tea Horse Road, the effect of the journey on the tea 21:40 – Where to buy high-quality Chinese tea in the US You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 Woman harvesting tea in Yunnan You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on:Chinese Tea Regions:Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada:Other ways to enjoy tea Chinese Tea Regions: Yunnan (Pu’er) Fujian (Wuyishan) Anhui (Huangshan) Zhejiang (Hangzhou) Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada: Teance in Berkeley Tea Drunk in New York Crimson Lotus in Seattle JalamTeas (Jeff’s company) Other ways to enjoy tea In person… Join us for an expert-led journey along the Tea Horse Road led by Jeff Fuchs himself From afar… Read The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane by Lisa See and/or watch our book club chat with her. Read the recap of our live event in Fujian where we talked tea at the origin with WuyiOrigin found Cindy Chen, Tea Drunk New York founder Shunan Teng and Chinese food expert Carolyn Phillips in A Taste Of China Ep. 3: Fujian’s Mountain Teas And Cuisine Join our Expert-Led Tour:Traversing the Ancient Tea Horse Road Follow the trail back to its roots on this journey, led by China Explorer, author and tea expert Jeff Fuchs, along tea’s most ancient trade roads. Hike through the forests of the first tea trees and step into the homes of descendants of the first tea cultivators on this thirst-quenching National Geographic ‘Tour of a Lifetime’ Read More For our sixth episode, we talk with Jeff Fuchs, a long-time WildChina friend, and a globally-recognized expert on tea. Jeff is also a pioneering explorer being the first Westerner to walk the 6000 some miles of the ancient tea horse road through the Himalayas. Today we’ll be talking with him about tea in China. To cover tea in China, a country very much steeped in the culture and history of tea drinking, we are speaking with Jeff Fuchs. Jeff is an explorer, author, and tea expert, voted one of Canada’s ‘Greatest Explorers’ by the Royal Canadian Geographic Society. He was the first documented westerner to have travelled the legendary Tea Horse Road, the nomadic Route of Salt ‘Tsa-Lam’, and the ‘Hor-Lam’, the Route of Pashmina through Ladakh. Jeff has led or been a part of over 30 expeditions in the Himalayas, chronicling both the fading oral narratives and the declining ‘Himalayan Water Towers’, the glaciers. Jeff is also the author of The Ancient Tea Horse Road, a chronicle of his journey along the Himalayan trade route, and he’s the inspiration for, and host of, the award-winning documentary ‘The Tea Explorer’. Episode Overview: 01:04 – Jeff’s background with tea 03:45 – Tea in Yunnan 07:20 – The roots of tea in China and the Tea Horse Road 12:02 – Tea regions in China 14:03 – The process of making tea 17:43 – The Tea Horse Road, the effect of the journey on the tea 21:40 – Where to buy high-quality Chinese tea in the US You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 Woman harvesting tea in Yunnan You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on:Chinese Tea Regions:Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada:Other ways to enjoy tea Chinese Tea Regions: Yunnan (Pu’er) Fujian (Wuyishan) Anhui (Huangshan) Zhejiang (Hangzhou) Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada: Teance in Berkeley Tea Drunk in New York Crimson Lotus in Seattle JalamTeas (Jeff’s company) Other ways to enjoy tea In person… Join us for an expert-led journey along the Tea Horse Road led by Jeff Fuchs himself From afar… Read The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane by Lisa See and/or watch our book club chat with her. Read the recap of our live event in Fujian where we talked tea at the origin with WuyiOrigin found Cindy Chen, Tea Drunk New York founder Shunan Teng and Chinese food expert Carolyn Phillips in A Taste Of China Ep. 3: Fujian’s Mountain Teas And Cuisine Join our Expert-Led Tour:Traversing the Ancient Tea Horse Road Follow the trail back to its roots on this journey, led by China Explorer, author and tea expert Jeff Fuchs, along tea’s most ancient trade roads. Hike through the forests of the first tea trees and step into the homes of descendants of the first tea cultivators on this thirst-quenching National Geographic ‘Tour of a Lifetime’ Read More For our sixth episode, we talk with Jeff Fuchs, a long-time WildChina friend, and a globally-recognized expert on tea. Jeff is also a pioneering explorer being the first Westerner to walk the 6000 some miles of the ancient tea horse road through the Himalayas. Today we’ll be talking with him about tea in China. To cover tea in China, a country very much steeped in the culture and history of tea drinking, we are speaking with Jeff Fuchs. Jeff is an explorer, author, and tea expert, voted one of Canada’s ‘Greatest Explorers’ by the Royal Canadian Geographic Society. He was the first documented westerner to have travelled the legendary Tea Horse Road, the nomadic Route of Salt ‘Tsa-Lam’, and the ‘Hor-Lam’, the Route of Pashmina through Ladakh. Jeff has led or been a part of over 30 expeditions in the Himalayas, chronicling both the fading oral narratives and the declining ‘Himalayan Water Towers’, the glaciers. Jeff is also the author of The Ancient Tea Horse Road, a chronicle of his journey along the Himalayan trade route, and he’s the inspiration for, and host of, the award-winning documentary ‘The Tea Explorer’. • 01:04 – Jeff’s background with tea • 03:45 – Tea in Yunnan • 07:20 – The roots of tea in China and the Tea Horse Road • 12:02 – Tea regions in China • 14:03 – The process of making tea • 17:43 – The Tea Horse Road, the effect of the journey on the tea • 21:40 – Where to buy high-quality Chinese tea in the US You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on:Chinese Tea Regions:Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada:Other ways to enjoy tea You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on:Chinese Tea Regions:Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada:Other ways to enjoy tea You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on:Chinese Tea Regions:Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada:Other ways to enjoy tea • You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on: • Chinese Tea Regions: • Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada: • Other ways to enjoy tea • Yunnan (Pu’er) • Fujian (Wuyishan) • Anhui (Huangshan) • Zhejiang (Hangzhou) Where to get Chinese tea in the U.S. and Canada: • Teance in Berkeley • Tea Drunk in New York • Crimson Lotus in Seattle • JalamTeas (Jeff’s company) Other ways to enjoy tea • Join us for an expert-led journey along the Tea Horse Road led by Jeff Fuchs himself • Read The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane by Lisa See and/or watch our book club chat with her. • Read the recap of our live event in Fujian where we talked tea at the origin with WuyiOrigin found Cindy Chen, Tea Drunk New York founder Shunan Teng and Chinese food expert Carolyn Phillips in A Taste Of China Ep. 3: Fujian’s Mountain Teas And Cuisine Join our Expert-Led Tour:Traversing the Ancient Tea Horse Road Follow the trail back to its roots on this journey, led by China Explorer, author and tea expert Jeff Fuchs, along tea’s most ancient trade roads. Hike through the forests of the first tea trees and step into the homes of descendants of the first tea cultivators on this thirst-quenching National Geographic ‘Tour of a Lifetime’ Read More Join our Expert-Led Tour:Traversing the Ancient Tea Horse Road Join our Expert-Led Tour:Traversing the Ancient Tea Horse Road Follow the trail back to its roots on this journey, led by China Explorer, author and tea expert Jeff Fuchs, along tea’s most ancient trade roads. Hike through the forests of the first tea trees and step into the homes of descendants of the first tea cultivators on this thirst-quenching National Geographic ‘Tour of a Lifetime’ Follow the trail back to its roots on this journey, led by China Explorer, author and tea expert Jeff Fuchs, along tea’s most ancient trade roads. Hike through the forests of the first tea trees and step into the homes of descendants of the first tea cultivators on this thirst-quenching National Geographic ‘Tour of a Lifetime’