ID: 186ba703bf93b843
Title: Episode 7: Tibet | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2021/07/episode-7-tibet/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2021-07-16T15:36:36+08:00
Tags: Tibet, Tibetan Buddhism, travel to Tibet, mount everest, Podcast, Tibetan Adventure, Mount Kailash
================================================================================

For our seventh episode, we head to Tibet. A region on the Western reaches of China, commonly referred to as the last frontier, the roof of the world. Home to the sparkling Potala Palace, the vast expanse of the Tibetan plateau, the snow-capped peaks of the Himalayas, the North and Eastern faces of Mount Everest, the seat of Tibetan Buddhism. It also happens to be where WildChina’s first sparks of existence came to be, on the autumn slopes of Mount Kailash. A National Geographic ‘Tour of a Lifetime’, an expedition to Tibet has many offerings. From the majesty of Lhasa’s Potala Palace to the frescos and old temples of the ancient Guge Kingdom, Tibet holds the opportunity to truly immerse yourself in the mysterious lands and cultures of “the last frontier”. Breathe in the crisp, fresh high-altitude air while stopping by isolated monasteries home to red-robed monks, following in the footsteps of pilgrims by embarking on a pilgrimage route, camping beneath the stars and bathing in hot springs. Listen to Episode 7: Tibet You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 Episode Overview: 01:18 – What comes to mind when Mei thinks of Tibet… 03:30 – WildChina’s founding story on Mt. Kailash 09:00 – Tibetan regions vs the Tibetan Autonomous Region 11:03 – Overview on the Tibet travel permit 12:30 – How to get in and out of Tibet (TAR) 14:00 – Altitude sickness preparation before you go – Chinese vs Western remedies 15:19 – Altitude sickness in Tibet, what facilities are there to help 17:30 – Where to stay in Lhasa 18:29 – What to see/do in and around Lhasa 22:48 – What season to visit Tibet 24:11 – How to pace your Tibet trip Praying flags in a Tibetan Sacred Mountain Mt. Kailash:Tibet Travel GuideWhere to stay in LhasaMei’s Top Lhasa PicksTibet Travel FAQ Mt. Kailash: As per WildChina’s founding tale, Mei put together a trip to make Mount Kailash an accessible journey to all travelers. It was subsequently named as a National Geographic “Tour of a Lifetime”. Have a look at the journey here Expedition to Tibet’s West. Tibet Travel Guide Check out our full Tibet travel guide Where to stay in Lhasa The St. Regis Lhasa Resort Shangri-La Hotel Lasa Songtsam Choskyi Linka Lhasa Mei’s Top Lhasa Picks Jokhang Temple Sera Monastery Potala Palace (of course) Tibet Travel FAQ Check out our full Tibet FAQs Praying Wheels in a Tibetan Temple monks leave the main assembly hall of Sera monastery in Lhasa. The main assembly hall is the venue for religious chanting – part of the religious curriculum. monks leave the main assembly hall of Sera monastery in Lhasa. The main assembly hall is the venue for religious chanting – part of the religious curriculum. Join our Upcoming Small Group Tour: THE SOUL OF TIBET Tibet has reopened and we can’t wait to head there this summer. Join us as we head on a spiritual journey looping from Lhasa, along the shores of Yamdrok Tso Lake, through rolling foothills, to Gyantse, Shigatse, and back. Read More For our seventh episode, we head to Tibet. A region on the Western reaches of China, commonly referred to as the last frontier, the roof of the world. Home to the sparkling Potala Palace, the vast expanse of the Tibetan plateau, the snow-capped peaks of the Himalayas, the North and Eastern faces of Mount Everest, the seat of Tibetan Buddhism. It also happens to be where WildChina’s first sparks of existence came to be, on the autumn slopes of Mount Kailash. A National Geographic ‘Tour of a Lifetime’, an expedition to Tibet has many offerings. From the majesty of Lhasa’s Potala Palace to the frescos and old temples of the ancient Guge Kingdom, Tibet holds the opportunity to truly immerse yourself in the mysterious lands and cultures of “the last frontier”. Breathe in the crisp, fresh high-altitude air while stopping by isolated monasteries home to red-robed monks, following in the footsteps of pilgrims by embarking on a pilgrimage route, camping beneath the stars and bathing in hot springs. Listen to Episode 7: Tibet You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 Episode Overview: 01:18 – What comes to mind when Mei thinks of Tibet… 03:30 – WildChina’s founding story on Mt. Kailash 09:00 – Tibetan regions vs the Tibetan Autonomous Region 11:03 – Overview on the Tibet travel permit 12:30 – How to get in and out of Tibet (TAR) 14:00 – Altitude sickness preparation before you go – Chinese vs Western remedies 15:19 – Altitude sickness in Tibet, what facilities are there to help 17:30 – Where to stay in Lhasa 18:29 – What to see/do in and around Lhasa 22:48 – What season to visit Tibet 24:11 – How to pace your Tibet trip Praying flags in a Tibetan Sacred Mountain Mt. Kailash:Tibet Travel GuideWhere to stay in LhasaMei’s Top Lhasa PicksTibet Travel FAQ Mt. Kailash: As per WildChina’s founding tale, Mei put together a trip to make Mount Kailash an accessible journey to all travelers. It was subsequently named as a National Geographic “Tour of a Lifetime”. Have a look at the journey here Expedition to Tibet’s West. Tibet Travel Guide Check out our full Tibet travel guide Where to stay in Lhasa The St. Regis Lhasa Resort Shangri-La Hotel Lasa Songtsam Choskyi Linka Lhasa Mei’s Top Lhasa Picks Jokhang Temple Sera Monastery Potala Palace (of course) Tibet Travel FAQ Check out our full Tibet FAQs Praying Wheels in a Tibetan Temple monks leave the main assembly hall of Sera monastery in Lhasa. The main assembly hall is the venue for religious chanting – part of the religious curriculum. monks leave the main assembly hall of Sera monastery in Lhasa. The main assembly hall is the venue for religious chanting – part of the religious curriculum. Join our Upcoming Small Group Tour: THE SOUL OF TIBET Tibet has reopened and we can’t wait to head there this summer. Join us as we head on a spiritual journey looping from Lhasa, along the shores of Yamdrok Tso Lake, through rolling foothills, to Gyantse, Shigatse, and back. Read More For our seventh episode, we head to Tibet. A region on the Western reaches of China, commonly referred to as the last frontier, the roof of the world. Home to the sparkling Potala Palace, the vast expanse of the Tibetan plateau, the snow-capped peaks of the Himalayas, the North and Eastern faces of Mount Everest, the seat of Tibetan Buddhism. It also happens to be where WildChina’s first sparks of existence came to be, on the autumn slopes of Mount Kailash. A National Geographic ‘Tour of a Lifetime’, an expedition to Tibet has many offerings. From the majesty of Lhasa’s Potala Palace to the frescos and old temples of the ancient Guge Kingdom, Tibet holds the opportunity to truly immerse yourself in the mysterious lands and cultures of “the last frontier”. Breathe in the crisp, fresh high-altitude air while stopping by isolated monasteries home to red-robed monks, following in the footsteps of pilgrims by embarking on a pilgrimage route, camping beneath the stars and bathing in hot springs. Listen to Episode 7: Tibet You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 • 01:18 – What comes to mind when Mei thinks of Tibet… • 03:30 – WildChina’s founding story on Mt. Kailash • 09:00 – Tibetan regions vs the Tibetan Autonomous Region • 11:03 – Overview on the Tibet travel permit • 12:30 – How to get in and out of Tibet (TAR) • 14:00 – Altitude sickness preparation before you go – Chinese vs Western remedies • 15:19 – Altitude sickness in Tibet, what facilities are there to help • 17:30 – Where to stay in Lhasa • 18:29 – What to see/do in and around Lhasa • 22:48 – What season to visit Tibet • 24:11 – How to pace your Tibet trip Mt. Kailash:Tibet Travel GuideWhere to stay in LhasaMei’s Top Lhasa PicksTibet Travel FAQ Mt. Kailash:Tibet Travel GuideWhere to stay in LhasaMei’s Top Lhasa PicksTibet Travel FAQ Mt. Kailash:Tibet Travel GuideWhere to stay in LhasaMei’s Top Lhasa PicksTibet Travel FAQ • Mt. Kailash: • Tibet Travel Guide • Where to stay in Lhasa • Mei’s Top Lhasa Picks • Tibet Travel FAQ • As per WildChina’s founding tale, Mei put together a trip to make Mount Kailash an accessible journey to all travelers. It was subsequently named as a National Geographic “Tour of a Lifetime”. Have a look at the journey here Expedition to Tibet’s West. • Check out our full Tibet travel guide Where to stay in Lhasa • The St. Regis Lhasa Resort • Shangri-La Hotel Lasa • Songtsam Choskyi Linka Lhasa Mei’s Top Lhasa Picks • Jokhang Temple • Sera Monastery • Potala Palace (of course) • Check out our full Tibet FAQs Join our Upcoming Small Group Tour: THE SOUL OF TIBET Tibet has reopened and we can’t wait to head there this summer. Join us as we head on a spiritual journey looping from Lhasa, along the shores of Yamdrok Tso Lake, through rolling foothills, to Gyantse, Shigatse, and back. Read More Join our Upcoming Small Group Tour: THE SOUL OF TIBET Join our Upcoming Small Group Tour: THE SOUL OF TIBET Tibet has reopened and we can’t wait to head there this summer. Join us as we head on a spiritual journey looping from Lhasa, along the shores of Yamdrok Tso Lake, through rolling foothills, to Gyantse, Shigatse, and back. Tibet has reopened and we can’t wait to head there this summer. Join us as we head on a spiritual journey looping from Lhasa, along the shores of Yamdrok Tso Lake, through rolling foothills, to Gyantse, Shigatse, and back.