ID: 10eec6ea6c1bc75
Title: Global Youth Travel Awards shortlist WildChina Education
URL: https://wildchina.com/2017/09/global-youth-travel-awards/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2017-09-22T11:27:59+08:00
Tags: Education Travel
================================================================================

As the Global Youth Travel Awards 2017 quickly approach, we are extremely proud to announce that WildChina Education has once again been shortlisted as one of only three finalists for the second year in a row. The award? ‘Best Education Abroad Provider’; awarded to leaders in the industry, offering innovative educational experiences, all the while ensuring students’ safety and personal enrichment. RELATED READING: Congrats to WildChina Education: 2016 Global Youth Travel Award Nominee The Global Youth World Traveller Awards are showcased at the world’s largest youth, student and educational travel convention- the WYSTC- which will be held this year in Montréal, Canada on the 28th of September. With the number of educational travel providers increasing year on year, being recognized as one of the top three world-wide is no small feat. We interviewed WildChina Education’s Senior Program Manager, Marjorie Perry, to get the inside scoop on all things WildChina Education over the last season, leading all the way up to the shortlist nomination; she even lets us in on what’s happening this coming season. ——————– What would you say were the most important factors that landed WildChina Education on the shortlist in 2017 for the second year running? For this particular award, emphasis is put on providing unique and educational experiences based upon a wide range of quality partnerships; that is what we have achieved with WildChina Education. Starting operations in 2000, we are the longest running and largest education abroad provider in China, affording us the knowledge, capability–and critically, the creativity–to deliver custom-made tours. RELATED READING: Top 3 Student Trips to China From volunteering with ethnic minority communities, to trekking off the beaten path, right back to learning about our host country’s rich and diverse history. We offer in-depth knowledge of China, coupled with client trust achieved from years of consistently providing top quality educational experiences; this is what makes traveling with WildChina Education such an appealing prospect. This illustrates why we have been recognized as a pioneer in education abroad programs. If you want to experience China differently, and be able to access our unique off-the-beaten path adventures, you just have to travel with WildChina Education. WildChina Education caters to both international schools located in China as well as groups from abroad, can you explain a bit about your relationship with these clients? Starting with our guests who have already been living in China, we have established great relationships with these top-tier schools. For many of our clients, our trips have become an integral part of their curriculums; these guests return year after year to experience WildChina Education trips. We are able to establish these strong relationships and become an industry leader as we offer experiences these students wouldn’t have been able to access otherwise. RELATED READING: Top Service Learning Tours in China Through our diverse and unqiuely tailored programs, students can gain new insights into studying and living in China, whether it be retracing the steps of the Long March, or volunteering and creating friendships through the Huiling Center, working with those who have mental handicaps. Having a great relationship with the schools we serve every year allows us to continually elevate our service standards and really provide the best the industry has to offer. In terms of groups from outside of China, what we have to offer them are in-depth explorations into a diverse country with a trusted and reputable provider. For that reason, it is really great to be nominated, for the second time, by the GYTA and recognized as an industry pioneer. RELATED READING: Get to Know WildChina Education’s Marjorie Perry And finally, what secrets can you let us in on for the upcoming season? We are debuting some very unique new trips this season. The Long March expedition will combine beautiful scenery, physical rigor, and an informed look into a defining moment of modern Chinese history. We’re really excited about this one as it will be an in-depth exploration of a part of history that shaped the China we live in today. RELATED READING: Top 5 Last-Minute Summer Trips for Kids and Families The Long March trip allows us to look back at the past; we also have a trip that peers into the future. With the Shenzhen Makers trip, students will learn how to work with 3-D printers, make their own switchboard, and try their hand at building a basic phone app. Both trips emphasize our objectives of breaking educational travel boundaries, developing original products that can serve a range of different educational objectives ——————– Evidently, receiving the nomination for ‘Best Education Abroad Provider’ has been the icing on the cake to an already successful year at WildChina Education. With more exciting projects to look forward to in the upcoming season, we’re crossing our fingers and wishing the best of luck to our team for the fast-approaching awards ceremony. Interested in learning more about what WildChina Education can offer your school or organization? Feel free to contact us and see how our team can custom design your next life-changing experience. As the Global Youth Travel Awards 2017 quickly approach, we are extremely proud to announce that WildChina Education has once again been shortlisted as one of only three finalists for the second year in a row. The award? ‘Best Education Abroad Provider’; awarded to leaders in the industry, offering innovative educational experiences, all the while ensuring students’ safety and personal enrichment. RELATED READING: Congrats to WildChina Education: 2016 Global Youth Travel Award Nominee The Global Youth World Traveller Awards are showcased at the world’s largest youth, student and educational travel convention- the WYSTC- which will be held this year in Montréal, Canada on the 28th of September. With the number of educational travel providers increasing year on year, being recognized as one of the top three world-wide is no small feat. We interviewed WildChina Education’s Senior Program Manager, Marjorie Perry, to get the inside scoop on all things WildChina Education over the last season, leading all the way up to the shortlist nomination; she even lets us in on what’s happening this coming season. ——————– What would you say were the most important factors that landed WildChina Education on the shortlist in 2017 for the second year running? For this particular award, emphasis is put on providing unique and educational experiences based upon a wide range of quality partnerships; that is what we have achieved with WildChina Education. Starting operations in 2000, we are the longest running and largest education abroad provider in China, affording us the knowledge, capability–and critically, the creativity–to deliver custom-made tours. RELATED READING: Top 3 Student Trips to China From volunteering with ethnic minority communities, to trekking off the beaten path, right back to learning about our host country’s rich and diverse history. We offer in-depth knowledge of China, coupled with client trust achieved from years of consistently providing top quality educational experiences; this is what makes traveling with WildChina Education such an appealing prospect. This illustrates why we have been recognized as a pioneer in education abroad programs. If you want to experience China differently, and be able to access our unique off-the-beaten path adventures, you just have to travel with WildChina Education. WildChina Education caters to both international schools located in China as well as groups from abroad, can you explain a bit about your relationship with these clients? Starting with our guests who have already been living in China, we have established great relationships with these top-tier schools. For many of our clients, our trips have become an integral part of their curriculums; these guests return year after year to experience WildChina Education trips. We are able to establish these strong relationships and become an industry leader as we offer experiences these students wouldn’t have been able to access otherwise. RELATED READING: Top Service Learning Tours in China Through our diverse and unqiuely tailored programs, students can gain new insights into studying and living in China, whether it be retracing the steps of the Long March, or volunteering and creating friendships through the Huiling Center, working with those who have mental handicaps. Having a great relationship with the schools we serve every year allows us to continually elevate our service standards and really provide the best the industry has to offer. In terms of groups from outside of China, what we have to offer them are in-depth explorations into a diverse country with a trusted and reputable provider. For that reason, it is really great to be nominated, for the second time, by the GYTA and recognized as an industry pioneer. RELATED READING: Get to Know WildChina Education’s Marjorie Perry And finally, what secrets can you let us in on for the upcoming season? We are debuting some very unique new trips this season. The Long March expedition will combine beautiful scenery, physical rigor, and an informed look into a defining moment of modern Chinese history. We’re really excited about this one as it will be an in-depth exploration of a part of history that shaped the China we live in today. RELATED READING: Top 5 Last-Minute Summer Trips for Kids and Families The Long March trip allows us to look back at the past; we also have a trip that peers into the future. With the Shenzhen Makers trip, students will learn how to work with 3-D printers, make their own switchboard, and try their hand at building a basic phone app. Both trips emphasize our objectives of breaking educational travel boundaries, developing original products that can serve a range of different educational objectives ——————– Evidently, receiving the nomination for ‘Best Education Abroad Provider’ has been the icing on the cake to an already successful year at WildChina Education. With more exciting projects to look forward to in the upcoming season, we’re crossing our fingers and wishing the best of luck to our team for the fast-approaching awards ceremony. Interested in learning more about what WildChina Education can offer your school or organization? Feel free to contact us and see how our team can custom design your next life-changing experience. As the Global Youth Travel Awards 2017 quickly approach, we are extremely proud to announce that WildChina Education has once again been shortlisted as one of only three finalists for the second year in a row. The award? ‘Best Education Abroad Provider’; awarded to leaders in the industry, offering innovative educational experiences, all the while ensuring students’ safety and personal enrichment. RELATED READING: Congrats to WildChina Education: 2016 Global Youth Travel Award Nominee The Global Youth World Traveller Awards are showcased at the world’s largest youth, student and educational travel convention- the WYSTC- which will be held this year in Montréal, Canada on the 28th of September. With the number of educational travel providers increasing year on year, being recognized as one of the top three world-wide is no small feat. We interviewed WildChina Education’s Senior Program Manager, Marjorie Perry, to get the inside scoop on all things WildChina Education over the last season, leading all the way up to the shortlist nomination; she even lets us in on what’s happening this coming season. What would you say were the most important factors that landed WildChina Education on the shortlist in 2017 for the second year running? For this particular award, emphasis is put on providing unique and educational experiences based upon a wide range of quality partnerships; that is what we have achieved with WildChina Education. Starting operations in 2000, we are the longest running and largest education abroad provider in China, affording us the knowledge, capability–and critically, the creativity–to deliver custom-made tours. RELATED READING: Top 3 Student Trips to China From volunteering with ethnic minority communities, to trekking off the beaten path, right back to learning about our host country’s rich and diverse history. We offer in-depth knowledge of China, coupled with client trust achieved from years of consistently providing top quality educational experiences; this is what makes traveling with WildChina Education such an appealing prospect. This illustrates why we have been recognized as a pioneer in education abroad programs. If you want to experience China differently, and be able to access our unique off-the-beaten path adventures, you just have to travel with WildChina Education. WildChina Education caters to both international schools located in China as well as groups from abroad, can you explain a bit about your relationship with these clients? Starting with our guests who have already been living in China, we have established great relationships with these top-tier schools. For many of our clients, our trips have become an integral part of their curriculums; these guests return year after year to experience WildChina Education trips. We are able to establish these strong relationships and become an industry leader as we offer experiences these students wouldn’t have been able to access otherwise. RELATED READING: Top Service Learning Tours in China Through our diverse and unqiuely tailored programs, students can gain new insights into studying and living in China, whether it be retracing the steps of the Long March, or volunteering and creating friendships through the Huiling Center, working with those who have mental handicaps. Having a great relationship with the schools we serve every year allows us to continually elevate our service standards and really provide the best the industry has to offer. In terms of groups from outside of China, what we have to offer them are in-depth explorations into a diverse country with a trusted and reputable provider. For that reason, it is really great to be nominated, for the second time, by the GYTA and recognized as an industry pioneer. RELATED READING: Get to Know WildChina Education’s Marjorie Perry And finally, what secrets can you let us in on for the upcoming season? We are debuting some very unique new trips this season. The Long March expedition will combine beautiful scenery, physical rigor, and an informed look into a defining moment of modern Chinese history. We’re really excited about this one as it will be an in-depth exploration of a part of history that shaped the China we live in today. RELATED READING: Top 5 Last-Minute Summer Trips for Kids and Families The Long March trip allows us to look back at the past; we also have a trip that peers into the future. With the Shenzhen Makers trip, students will learn how to work with 3-D printers, make their own switchboard, and try their hand at building a basic phone app. Both trips emphasize our objectives of breaking educational travel boundaries, developing original products that can serve a range of different educational objectives Evidently, receiving the nomination for ‘Best Education Abroad Provider’ has been the icing on the cake to an already successful year at WildChina Education. With more exciting projects to look forward to in the upcoming season, we’re crossing our fingers and wishing the best of luck to our team for the fast-approaching awards ceremony. Interested in learning more about what WildChina Education can offer your school or organization? Feel free to contact us and see how our team can custom design your next life-changing experience.