ID: 4206482b73acfb81
Title: NOWHERE: An Immersive Pop-up Experience in Nature | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2022/08/nowhere-an-immersive-pop-up-experience/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2022-08-15T13:57:02+08:00
Tags: art, Contemporary Art, Pop-up Experience, Immersive Experience, Culinary Experience, Performance, In the News, WildChina
================================================================================

On July 23rd, WildChina premiered NOWHERE, a new brand founded by the company’s creative team aiming to embody a human-to-nature connection in the form of an immersive pop-up experience. NOWHERE’s founding belief is that humans and nature are inherently inseparable; by losing touch with the natural world, we also lose touch with our true selves. NOWHERE is an immersive pop-up experience featuring curated natural scenes that transcend expectation – from a quiet forest past a meandering river to the solitude of a remote temple – to present a unique, time-limited, sensory-flow event and experience. NO WHERE is a mindset NOW HERE is the realization The pop-up launched in Beijing in a secret location on the outskirts of the city. The 50-minute drive from the city center brought participants to a lush forest blanketed in caressing grass, where ambient sounds of songbirds and cicadas filled the air. The evening was broken down into five “acts” designed to evoke each of the human senses through nature: Forest of Mirrors (sight), Midsummer Symphony (sound), Forest-themed Banquet (taste and smell) and The Spirit of All Things (touch). Photo courtesy of Aaron Berkovich MJ Wang, director of WildChina Corporate Services, said, “During the pandemic, people have constantly had their movement restricted – both long distance travel and close to home wandering. I personally feel that right now everyone could benefit from stepping back into nature to feel that freedom again. NOWHERE, as a brand, as a concept, can actually be anywhere, and as we determine the location of each stop on the journey, NO WHERE becomes NOW HERE. We hope to make this experience accessible to everyone everywhere. NOWHERE is really an extension of WildChina’s mission to create life-changing experiences and make them accessible to all.” Photo WildChina Jimmy Loh, Managing Director of Groupe Flo, said: “From the very first moment I set foot on the venue, I felt the charm of nature return to me. Natural elements are the best inspiration for creating new dishes, after all, this is where all ingredients begin and end. The meals we’ve curated for this experience have each been designed to give a tangible feeling of the surrounding natural elements. Every part of the culinary experience incorporates this – taste, style and plating. I fundamentally believe that tasting nature is one of the most profound ways to truly appreciate what the earth gives us.” Nowhere Dates and Booking Details: Beijing dates: August 7, 13, 20, 27 September 3, 10, 17, 24 October 1, 8, 15, 22 To purchase a ticket, please scan the below QR code: For private bookings, please contact Rebecca Xiong: Phone:138 1133 3389 Email:rebecca@wildchina.com Additional Information: Dress code Summer chic (Please note that the venue is outdoors, and appropriate footwear is recommended accordingly) Our Partners: FLO Flo originated from a century-old restaurant brand in Paris, France, and in the 23 years since it settled in Beijing, it has been adhering to classic culinary traditions while making space for innovation. It is a renowned institution, beloved of Chinese and foreign diners alike, having won many honors including Michelin recognition. 冬 Garden: In a private woodland in the suburbs of Beijing dwells Dong Garden owner Han Dong, a traditional Chinese farmer with a lust for life. Han is a man of many faces — model, social media influencer, bon vivant, and art space manager. Photo WildChina Photo courtesy of Aaron Berkovich Photo courtesy of Aaron Berkovich Photo courtesy of Andres Vargas Photo courtesy of Aaron Berkovich Photo WildChina Coming soon: announcement of NOWHERE’s second pop-up location On July 23rd, WildChina premiered NOWHERE, a new brand founded by the company’s creative team aiming to embody a human-to-nature connection in the form of an immersive pop-up experience. NOWHERE’s founding belief is that humans and nature are inherently inseparable; by losing touch with the natural world, we also lose touch with our true selves. NOWHERE is an immersive pop-up experience featuring curated natural scenes that transcend expectation – from a quiet forest past a meandering river to the solitude of a remote temple – to present a unique, time-limited, sensory-flow event and experience. NO WHERE is a mindset NOW HERE is the realization The pop-up launched in Beijing in a secret location on the outskirts of the city. The 50-minute drive from the city center brought participants to a lush forest blanketed in caressing grass, where ambient sounds of songbirds and cicadas filled the air. The evening was broken down into five “acts” designed to evoke each of the human senses through nature: Forest of Mirrors (sight), Midsummer Symphony (sound), Forest-themed Banquet (taste and smell) and The Spirit of All Things (touch). Photo courtesy of Aaron Berkovich MJ Wang, director of WildChina Corporate Services, said, “During the pandemic, people have constantly had their movement restricted – both long distance travel and close to home wandering. I personally feel that right now everyone could benefit from stepping back into nature to feel that freedom again. NOWHERE, as a brand, as a concept, can actually be anywhere, and as we determine the location of each stop on the journey, NO WHERE becomes NOW HERE. We hope to make this experience accessible to everyone everywhere. NOWHERE is really an extension of WildChina’s mission to create life-changing experiences and make them accessible to all.” Photo WildChina Jimmy Loh, Managing Director of Groupe Flo, said: “From the very first moment I set foot on the venue, I felt the charm of nature return to me. Natural elements are the best inspiration for creating new dishes, after all, this is where all ingredients begin and end. The meals we’ve curated for this experience have each been designed to give a tangible feeling of the surrounding natural elements. Every part of the culinary experience incorporates this – taste, style and plating. I fundamentally believe that tasting nature is one of the most profound ways to truly appreciate what the earth gives us.” Nowhere Dates and Booking Details: Beijing dates: August 7, 13, 20, 27 September 3, 10, 17, 24 October 1, 8, 15, 22 To purchase a ticket, please scan the below QR code: For private bookings, please contact Rebecca Xiong: Phone:138 1133 3389 Email:rebecca@wildchina.com Additional Information: Dress code Summer chic (Please note that the venue is outdoors, and appropriate footwear is recommended accordingly) Our Partners: FLO Flo originated from a century-old restaurant brand in Paris, France, and in the 23 years since it settled in Beijing, it has been adhering to classic culinary traditions while making space for innovation. It is a renowned institution, beloved of Chinese and foreign diners alike, having won many honors including Michelin recognition. 冬 Garden: In a private woodland in the suburbs of Beijing dwells Dong Garden owner Han Dong, a traditional Chinese farmer with a lust for life. Han is a man of many faces — model, social media influencer, bon vivant, and art space manager. Photo WildChina Photo courtesy of Aaron Berkovich Photo courtesy of Aaron Berkovich Photo courtesy of Andres Vargas Photo courtesy of Aaron Berkovich Photo WildChina Coming soon: announcement of NOWHERE’s second pop-up location On July 23rd, WildChina premiered NOWHERE, a new brand founded by the company’s creative team aiming to embody a human-to-nature connection in the form of an immersive pop-up experience. NOWHERE’s founding belief is that humans and nature are inherently inseparable; by losing touch with the natural world, we also lose touch with our true selves. NOWHERE is an immersive pop-up experience featuring curated natural scenes that transcend expectation – from a quiet forest past a meandering river to the solitude of a remote temple – to present a unique, time-limited, sensory-flow event and experience. NO WHERE is a mindset NOW HERE is the realization The pop-up launched in Beijing in a secret location on the outskirts of the city. The 50-minute drive from the city center brought participants to a lush forest blanketed in caressing grass, where ambient sounds of songbirds and cicadas filled the air. The evening was broken down into five “acts” designed to evoke each of the human senses through nature: Forest of Mirrors (sight), Midsummer Symphony (sound), Forest-themed Banquet (taste and smell) and The Spirit of All Things (touch). MJ Wang, director of WildChina Corporate Services, said, “During the pandemic, people have constantly had their movement restricted – both long distance travel and close to home wandering. I personally feel that right now everyone could benefit from stepping back into nature to feel that freedom again. NOWHERE, as a brand, as a concept, can actually be anywhere, and as we determine the location of each stop on the journey, NO WHERE becomes NOW HERE. We hope to make this experience accessible to everyone everywhere. NOWHERE is really an extension of WildChina’s mission to create life-changing experiences and make them accessible to all.” Jimmy Loh, Managing Director of Groupe Flo, said: “From the very first moment I set foot on the venue, I felt the charm of nature return to me. Natural elements are the best inspiration for creating new dishes, after all, this is where all ingredients begin and end. The meals we’ve curated for this experience have each been designed to give a tangible feeling of the surrounding natural elements. Every part of the culinary experience incorporates this – taste, style and plating. I fundamentally believe that tasting nature is one of the most profound ways to truly appreciate what the earth gives us.” Nowhere Dates and Booking Details: • August 7, 13, 20, 27 • September 3, 10, 17, 24 • October 1, 8, 15, 22 To purchase a ticket, please scan the below QR code: For private bookings, please contact Rebecca Xiong: • Phone:138 1133 3389 • Email:rebecca@wildchina.com Additional Information: Summer chic (Please note that the venue is outdoors, and appropriate footwear is recommended accordingly) Flo originated from a century-old restaurant brand in Paris, France, and in the 23 years since it settled in Beijing, it has been adhering to classic culinary traditions while making space for innovation. It is a renowned institution, beloved of Chinese and foreign diners alike, having won many honors including Michelin recognition. In a private woodland in the suburbs of Beijing dwells Dong Garden owner Han Dong, a traditional Chinese farmer with a lust for life. Han is a man of many faces — model, social media influencer, bon vivant, and art space manager. Coming soon: announcement of NOWHERE’s second pop-up location