ID: 3b9163eec1159201
Title: Mei Zhang's Done it Again - 7 Time Award Winner A-List Travel Advisor | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2016/08/mei-zhangs-done-it-again-7-time-award-winner-a-list-travel-advisor/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2016-08-15T04:27:11+08:00
Tags: Mei's Advice
================================================================================

She’s done it again! WildChina Founder, Mei Zhang received her seventh a-list travel advisor award from Travel and Leisure Magazine this week. We’d love to thank Travel and Leisure and Nathan Lump for putting Mei on the Travel Agent a-list again! The editors of Travel + Leisure assess hundreds of travel agents around the world and select the best to make up their annual list of “A-list Top Travel Advisors”. Mei Zhang has yet again joined the elite list which features 133 of the world’s top advisors, arranged by location of expertise. “There’s a reason we use the term advisor to describe the members of our A-List,” said Travel + Leisure News Editor and “Trip Doctor” columnist Amy Farley. “These destination experts offer much more than booking services. They offer insider insights, unparalleled access, the ability to create a seamless itinerary, and value.” Mei can now add this accolade to her list of awards and recognitions, which include: Travel + Leisure’s 2009-2012 A-Lists of Top Travel Agents, Condé Nast Traveler Top Travel Specialist in 2010 and 2011, and The Daily Beast’s 2012 list of Women in the World. Riding on Mei’s 14 years of experience in the luxury travel industry, WildChina provides both insider access to China and personalized service. WildChina’s specialties are China, Tibet and custom luxury itineraries.WildChina has also received acknowledgments for our luxury travel services, which set the bar for tailored, authentic travel experiences. In 2009 National Geographic selected WildChina as one of Adventure Magazine’s Best Adventure Travel Companies on Earth, Traveler Magazine’s 50 Tours of a Lifetime, and Harvard Business Review named WildChina “a leader in its field.”Travel + Leisure’s annual A-list will be featured in the September issue of Travel + Leisure and on travelandleisure.com. Congratulations Mei! She’s done it again! WildChina Founder, Mei Zhang received her seventh a-list travel advisor award from Travel and Leisure Magazine this week. We’d love to thank Travel and Leisure and Nathan Lump for putting Mei on the Travel Agent a-list again! The editors of Travel + Leisure assess hundreds of travel agents around the world and select the best to make up their annual list of “A-list Top Travel Advisors”. Mei Zhang has yet again joined the elite list which features 133 of the world’s top advisors, arranged by location of expertise. “There’s a reason we use the term advisor to describe the members of our A-List,” said Travel + Leisure News Editor and “Trip Doctor” columnist Amy Farley. “These destination experts offer much more than booking services. They offer insider insights, unparalleled access, the ability to create a seamless itinerary, and value.” Mei can now add this accolade to her list of awards and recognitions, which include: Travel + Leisure’s 2009-2012 A-Lists of Top Travel Agents, Condé Nast Traveler Top Travel Specialist in 2010 and 2011, and The Daily Beast’s 2012 list of Women in the World. Riding on Mei’s 14 years of experience in the luxury travel industry, WildChina provides both insider access to China and personalized service. WildChina’s specialties are China, Tibet and custom luxury itineraries.WildChina has also received acknowledgments for our luxury travel services, which set the bar for tailored, authentic travel experiences. In 2009 National Geographic selected WildChina as one of Adventure Magazine’s Best Adventure Travel Companies on Earth, Traveler Magazine’s 50 Tours of a Lifetime, and Harvard Business Review named WildChina “a leader in its field.”Travel + Leisure’s annual A-list will be featured in the September issue of Travel + Leisure and on travelandleisure.com. Congratulations Mei! WildChina Founder, Mei Zhang received her seventh a-list travel advisor award from Travel and Leisure Magazine this week. We’d love to thank Travel and Leisure and Nathan Lump for putting Mei on the Travel Agent a-list again! The editors of Travel + Leisure assess hundreds of travel agents around the world and select the best to make up their annual list of “A-list Top Travel Advisors”. Mei Zhang has yet again joined the elite list which features 133 of the world’s top advisors, arranged by location of expertise. “There’s a reason we use the term advisor to describe the members of our A-List,” said Travel + Leisure News Editor and “Trip Doctor” columnist Amy Farley. “These destination experts offer much more than booking services. They offer insider insights, unparalleled access, the ability to create a seamless itinerary, and value.” Mei can now add this accolade to her list of awards and recognitions, which include: Travel + Leisure’s 2009-2012 A-Lists of Top Travel Agents, Condé Nast Traveler Top Travel Specialist in 2010 and 2011, and The Daily Beast’s 2012 list of Women in the World. Riding on Mei’s 14 years of experience in the luxury travel industry, WildChina provides both insider access to China and personalized service. WildChina’s specialties are China, Tibet and custom luxury itineraries.WildChina has also received acknowledgments for our luxury travel services, which set the bar for tailored, authentic travel experiences. In 2009 National Geographic selected WildChina as one of Adventure Magazine’s Best Adventure Travel Companies on Earth, Traveler Magazine’s 50 Tours of a Lifetime, and Harvard Business Review named WildChina “a leader in its field.”Travel + Leisure’s annual A-list will be featured in the September issue of Travel + Leisure and on travelandleisure.com. Congratulations Mei! “There’s a reason we use the term advisor to describe the members of our A-List,” said Travel + Leisure News Editor and “Trip Doctor” columnist Amy Farley. “These destination experts offer much more than booking services. They offer insider insights, unparalleled access, the ability to create a seamless itinerary, and value.” Mei can now add this accolade to her list of awards and recognitions, which include: Travel + Leisure’s 2009-2012 A-Lists of Top Travel Agents, Condé Nast Traveler Top Travel Specialist in 2010 and 2011, and The Daily Beast’s 2012 list of Women in the World. Riding on Mei’s 14 years of experience in the luxury travel industry, WildChina provides both insider access to China and personalized service. WildChina’s specialties are China, Tibet and custom luxury itineraries.WildChina has also received acknowledgments for our luxury travel services, which set the bar for tailored, authentic travel experiences. In 2009 National Geographic selected WildChina as one of Adventure Magazine’s Best Adventure Travel Companies on Earth, Traveler Magazine’s 50 Tours of a Lifetime, and Harvard Business Review named WildChina “a leader in its field.”Travel + Leisure’s annual A-list will be featured in the September issue of Travel + Leisure and on travelandleisure.com. Congratulations Mei! “There’s a reason we use the term advisor to describe the members of our A-List,” said Travel + Leisure News Editor and “Trip Doctor” columnist Amy Farley. “These destination experts offer much more than booking services. They offer insider insights, unparalleled access, the ability to create a seamless itinerary, and value.” Mei can now add this accolade to her list of awards and recognitions, which include: Travel + Leisure’s 2009-2012 A-Lists of Top Travel Agents, Condé Nast Traveler Top Travel Specialist in 2010 and 2011, and The Daily Beast’s 2012 list of Women in the World. Riding on Mei’s 14 years of experience in the luxury travel industry, WildChina provides both insider access to China and personalized service. WildChina’s specialties are China, Tibet and custom luxury itineraries.WildChina has also received acknowledgments for our luxury travel services, which set the bar for tailored, authentic travel experiences. In 2009 National Geographic selected WildChina as one of Adventure Magazine’s Best Adventure Travel Companies on Earth, Traveler Magazine’s 50 Tours of a Lifetime, and Harvard Business Review named WildChina “a leader in its field.”Travel + Leisure’s annual A-list will be featured in the September issue of Travel + Leisure and on travelandleisure.com. Congratulations Mei! “There’s a reason we use the term advisor to describe the members of our A-List,” said Travel + Leisure News Editor and “Trip Doctor” columnist Amy Farley. “These destination experts offer much more than booking services. They offer insider insights, unparalleled access, the ability to create a seamless itinerary, and value.” Mei can now add this accolade to her list of awards and recognitions, which include: Travel + Leisure’s 2009-2012 A-Lists of Top Travel Agents, Condé Nast Traveler Top Travel Specialist in 2010 and 2011, and The Daily Beast’s 2012 list of Women in the World. Riding on Mei’s 14 years of experience in the luxury travel industry, WildChina provides both insider access to China and personalized service. WildChina’s specialties are China, Tibet and custom luxury itineraries.WildChina has also received acknowledgments for our luxury travel services, which set the bar for tailored, authentic travel experiences. In 2009 National Geographic selected WildChina as one of Adventure Magazine’s Best Adventure Travel Companies on Earth, Traveler Magazine’s 50 Tours of a Lifetime, and Harvard Business Review named WildChina “a leader in its field.”Travel + Leisure’s annual A-list will be featured in the September issue of Travel + Leisure and on travelandleisure.com. Congratulations Mei! “There’s a reason we use the term advisor to describe the members of our A-List,” said Travel + Leisure News Editor and “Trip Doctor” columnist Amy Farley. “These destination experts offer much more than booking services. They offer insider insights, unparalleled access, the ability to create a seamless itinerary, and value.” Mei can now add this accolade to her list of awards and recognitions, which include: Travel + Leisure’s 2009-2012 A-Lists of Top Travel Agents, Condé Nast Traveler Top Travel Specialist in 2010 and 2011, and The Daily Beast’s 2012 list of Women in the World. Riding on Mei’s 14 years of experience in the luxury travel industry, WildChina provides both insider access to China and personalized service. WildChina’s specialties are China, Tibet and custom luxury itineraries.WildChina has also received acknowledgments for our luxury travel services, which set the bar for tailored, authentic travel experiences. In 2009 National Geographic selected WildChina as one of Adventure Magazine’s Best Adventure Travel Companies on Earth, Traveler Magazine’s 50 Tours of a Lifetime, and Harvard Business Review named WildChina “a leader in its field.”Travel + Leisure’s annual A-list will be featured in the September issue of Travel + Leisure and on travelandleisure.com. Congratulations Mei! Mei can now add this accolade to her list of awards and recognitions, which include: Travel + Leisure’s 2009-2012 A-Lists of Top Travel Agents, Condé Nast Traveler Top Travel Specialist in 2010 and 2011, and The Daily Beast’s 2012 list of Women in the World. Riding on Mei’s 14 years of experience in the luxury travel industry, WildChina provides both insider access to China and personalized service. WildChina’s specialties are China, Tibet and custom luxury itineraries.WildChina has also received acknowledgments for our luxury travel services, which set the bar for tailored, authentic travel experiences. In 2009 National Geographic selected WildChina as one of Adventure Magazine’s Best Adventure Travel Companies on Earth, Traveler Magazine’s 50 Tours of a Lifetime, and Harvard Business Review named WildChina “a leader in its field.”Travel + Leisure’s annual A-list will be featured in the September issue of Travel + Leisure and on travelandleisure.com. Congratulations Mei!