ID: daa7748bc8b5be5
Title: Xi'an: More than Terracotta Warriors | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2017/09/xian-tours/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2017-09-22T11:47:10+08:00
Tags: Xian
================================================================================

When people travel to Xi’an, they’re often familiar with the iconic Terracotta warriors, the food of the Muslim District, and the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda that stands over the city. Sure, we all know and love what you’ll get on typical Xi’an tours, but have you ever wondered what hidden gems most travelers overlook? We’ve got just the ticket! On WildChina journeys, we make sure to hit all the famous must-sees, and we like to add a razzle-dazzle of unique activities. See what you can do on one of our Xian tours. RELATED READING: 5 Best Dishes in Xian The Angsana Hotel Hot Springs This luxurious hotel is a 5-minute walk away from the local hot springs. With over 20 kinds of pools, each with their own theme, you’ll be hard-pressed to explore them all on a weekend retreat. The hotel staff are knowledgeable, and the price is on-par with those in downtown Xi’an. If you’re planning on visiting the Terracotta Warriors it’s a good idea to stay here the night before, as it is closer than the city. Close by you’ll also find the HuaQing Palace, where the Emperor of the Tang Dynasty wintered under the majesty of the Lishan Mountain. The Palace is also the location for “The Song of Everlasting Sorrow,” mentioned below. Book your room through us and we’ll make sure that entrance to the hot springs is included. All you’ll need to think about is which pool to try first. RELATED READING: Islamic Architecture in China – 4 Stunning Cities Speaking with an Imam at a Local Mosque Xi’an is home to 60,000 ethnic Chinese Muslims and has a long history, stretching back 1,300 years. As the point of origin for the ancient Silk Road, Muslim traders have been traveling through the city for millenia. There are many mosques throughout Xi’an, though one of the more notable is the Great Mosque, which houses more than twenty buildings in five courtyards, spread over 12,000 square meters. In these mosques, Imams lead prayers 5 times a day, and provide wisdom from both Ancient China and the Muslim tradition. When you plan your trip to the Great Mosque with WildChina , we’ll introduce you to an Imam who will impart insight upon you. RELATED READING: Our Insider’s Guide to the Best Destinations Along the Silk Road Xi’an Guanzhong Folk Art Museum To immerse visitors in the lengthy history of the area, the owner of the Guanzhong Folk Art Museum has collected various pieces of folk art from the area surrounding Shaanxi Province. They even went so far as to buy and relocate entire estates with painstaking detail, which can make it appear more like a village than a museum. Roaming from building to building, you will feel like you are peering through time into China’s rich history. To fully appreciate this location, you will need to be well-rested, and sporting comfortable footwear for the amount of walking it requires. Photo Credit: David Poh RELATED READING: 11 Jaw-Dropping Performances to Watch Around China The Song of Everlasting Sorrow Though the name implies something heartbreaking, this theatrical show is a must-see event. The story chronicles a pair of star-crossed lovers with world-class costumes and scenes that integrate the surrounding mountains. WildChina can get you VIP tickets to this breathtaking performance. The Song of Everlasting Sorrow is performed in the Huaqing Palace, just a stone’s throw from the Angsana Hotel. At the Palace, you will be met at the gate by guides, who will bring you to a private room. Servers will deliver multiple (up to 9) courses over the span of the performance, explaining each dish as they arrive. Whether you’re alone, on a date, or traveling as a group, this is an experience you’re sure to remember for years to come. As you can see, Xi’an has more to offer than only the Terracotta Soldiers, making it well-worth staying in town for a couple of days. We have a number of journeys that make a stop in Xi’an where you can literally “soak” in all the alternative sights of this city. Take a look at our journeys that visit Xi’an, and let’s start planning your trip today. When people travel to Xi’an, they’re often familiar with the iconic Terracotta warriors, the food of the Muslim District, and the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda that stands over the city. Sure, we all know and love what you’ll get on typical Xi’an tours, but have you ever wondered what hidden gems most travelers overlook? We’ve got just the ticket! On WildChina journeys, we make sure to hit all the famous must-sees, and we like to add a razzle-dazzle of unique activities. See what you can do on one of our Xian tours. RELATED READING: 5 Best Dishes in Xian The Angsana Hotel Hot Springs This luxurious hotel is a 5-minute walk away from the local hot springs. With over 20 kinds of pools, each with their own theme, you’ll be hard-pressed to explore them all on a weekend retreat. The hotel staff are knowledgeable, and the price is on-par with those in downtown Xi’an. If you’re planning on visiting the Terracotta Warriors it’s a good idea to stay here the night before, as it is closer than the city. Close by you’ll also find the HuaQing Palace, where the Emperor of the Tang Dynasty wintered under the majesty of the Lishan Mountain. The Palace is also the location for “The Song of Everlasting Sorrow,” mentioned below. Book your room through us and we’ll make sure that entrance to the hot springs is included. All you’ll need to think about is which pool to try first. RELATED READING: Islamic Architecture in China – 4 Stunning Cities Speaking with an Imam at a Local Mosque Xi’an is home to 60,000 ethnic Chinese Muslims and has a long history, stretching back 1,300 years. As the point of origin for the ancient Silk Road, Muslim traders have been traveling through the city for millenia. There are many mosques throughout Xi’an, though one of the more notable is the Great Mosque, which houses more than twenty buildings in five courtyards, spread over 12,000 square meters. In these mosques, Imams lead prayers 5 times a day, and provide wisdom from both Ancient China and the Muslim tradition. When you plan your trip to the Great Mosque with WildChina , we’ll introduce you to an Imam who will impart insight upon you. RELATED READING: Our Insider’s Guide to the Best Destinations Along the Silk Road Xi’an Guanzhong Folk Art Museum To immerse visitors in the lengthy history of the area, the owner of the Guanzhong Folk Art Museum has collected various pieces of folk art from the area surrounding Shaanxi Province. They even went so far as to buy and relocate entire estates with painstaking detail, which can make it appear more like a village than a museum. Roaming from building to building, you will feel like you are peering through time into China’s rich history. To fully appreciate this location, you will need to be well-rested, and sporting comfortable footwear for the amount of walking it requires. Photo Credit: David Poh RELATED READING: 11 Jaw-Dropping Performances to Watch Around China The Song of Everlasting Sorrow Though the name implies something heartbreaking, this theatrical show is a must-see event. The story chronicles a pair of star-crossed lovers with world-class costumes and scenes that integrate the surrounding mountains. WildChina can get you VIP tickets to this breathtaking performance. The Song of Everlasting Sorrow is performed in the Huaqing Palace, just a stone’s throw from the Angsana Hotel. At the Palace, you will be met at the gate by guides, who will bring you to a private room. Servers will deliver multiple (up to 9) courses over the span of the performance, explaining each dish as they arrive. Whether you’re alone, on a date, or traveling as a group, this is an experience you’re sure to remember for years to come. As you can see, Xi’an has more to offer than only the Terracotta Soldiers, making it well-worth staying in town for a couple of days. We have a number of journeys that make a stop in Xi’an where you can literally “soak” in all the alternative sights of this city. Take a look at our journeys that visit Xi’an, and let’s start planning your trip today. When people travel to Xi’an, they’re often familiar with the iconic Terracotta warriors, the food of the Muslim District, and the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda that stands over the city. Sure, we all know and love what you’ll get on typical Xi’an tours, but have you ever wondered what hidden gems most travelers overlook? We’ve got just the ticket! On WildChina journeys, we make sure to hit all the famous must-sees, and we like to add a razzle-dazzle of unique activities. See what you can do on one of our Xian tours. RELATED READING: 5 Best Dishes in Xian The Angsana Hotel Hot Springs This luxurious hotel is a 5-minute walk away from the local hot springs. With over 20 kinds of pools, each with their own theme, you’ll be hard-pressed to explore them all on a weekend retreat. The hotel staff are knowledgeable, and the price is on-par with those in downtown Xi’an. If you’re planning on visiting the Terracotta Warriors it’s a good idea to stay here the night before, as it is closer than the city. Close by you’ll also find the HuaQing Palace, where the Emperor of the Tang Dynasty wintered under the majesty of the Lishan Mountain. The Palace is also the location for “The Song of Everlasting Sorrow,” mentioned below. Book your room through us and we’ll make sure that entrance to the hot springs is included. All you’ll need to think about is which pool to try first. RELATED READING: Islamic Architecture in China – 4 Stunning Cities Speaking with an Imam at a Local Mosque Xi’an is home to 60,000 ethnic Chinese Muslims and has a long history, stretching back 1,300 years. As the point of origin for the ancient Silk Road, Muslim traders have been traveling through the city for millenia. There are many mosques throughout Xi’an, though one of the more notable is the Great Mosque, which houses more than twenty buildings in five courtyards, spread over 12,000 square meters. In these mosques, Imams lead prayers 5 times a day, and provide wisdom from both Ancient China and the Muslim tradition. When you plan your trip to the Great Mosque with WildChina , we’ll introduce you to an Imam who will impart insight upon you. RELATED READING: Our Insider’s Guide to the Best Destinations Along the Silk Road Xi’an Guanzhong Folk Art Museum To immerse visitors in the lengthy history of the area, the owner of the Guanzhong Folk Art Museum has collected various pieces of folk art from the area surrounding Shaanxi Province. They even went so far as to buy and relocate entire estates with painstaking detail, which can make it appear more like a village than a museum. Roaming from building to building, you will feel like you are peering through time into China’s rich history. To fully appreciate this location, you will need to be well-rested, and sporting comfortable footwear for the amount of walking it requires. Photo Credit: David Poh RELATED READING: 11 Jaw-Dropping Performances to Watch Around China The Song of Everlasting Sorrow Though the name implies something heartbreaking, this theatrical show is a must-see event. The story chronicles a pair of star-crossed lovers with world-class costumes and scenes that integrate the surrounding mountains. WildChina can get you VIP tickets to this breathtaking performance. The Song of Everlasting Sorrow is performed in the Huaqing Palace, just a stone’s throw from the Angsana Hotel. At the Palace, you will be met at the gate by guides, who will bring you to a private room. Servers will deliver multiple (up to 9) courses over the span of the performance, explaining each dish as they arrive. Whether you’re alone, on a date, or traveling as a group, this is an experience you’re sure to remember for years to come. As you can see, Xi’an has more to offer than only the Terracotta Soldiers, making it well-worth staying in town for a couple of days. We have a number of journeys that make a stop in Xi’an where you can literally “soak” in all the alternative sights of this city. Take a look at our journeys that visit Xi’an, and let’s start planning your trip today.