ID: 30cbef1c9ebe9440
Title: Where to Eat in Guangzhou | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2023/08/where-to-eat-in-guangzhou/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2023-08-08T21:11:42+08:00
Tags: WildChina, Chinese Food, Guangzhou, Foodie Finds, Insider Tips, Guangdong, Restaurant Guides
================================================================================

Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 Crispy Pork Belly at Jiang by Chef Fei Restaurant (photo courtesy of Jiang by Chef Fei) With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Price: $$$ Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 Bingsheng dining area (photo courtesy of Bingsheng Pinwei) With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Price: $$ Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Phone: +86 2038088888 Best Hole in the Wall in Guangzhou Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 Cheung Fun (steamed rice noodle rolls) Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian is widely recognized for having serving the best-steamed rice noodle roll in Guangzhou since 1958. With numerous outlets across the city, their delectable offerings can be found just about anywhere in town. Known for their well-balanced combination of flavorful fillings and smooth steamed rice skin, Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian has become a popular destination for rice noodle lovers. Prepare for a vibrant dining experience with shared tables and a lively atmosphere. The restaurant opens at 6:30 in the morning and continues serving until the food is sold out, usually around noon. Sara’s favorite dishes: Steamed Roll Rice Noodles 蒸肠粉 and Porridge生滚粥 Price: $ Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 The historic French interior of Orient Express (photo courtesy of Orient Express) Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Price: $$$ Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Guangzhou Sky No.1 – 空中一号 Seafood soup (photo courtesy of Sky № 1) If you want your lasting memory of Guangzhou to be a meal, then Sky No.1 is your place. Located along the riverbank, Sky No.1 is renowned for its delectable food and exceptional service. Apart from serving Cantonese classics, the restaurant offers an exceptional live seafood selection, including wild-caught Indonesian giant spiny lobster and Australian crystal crab. The head chef’s extensive culinary journey across China infuses each dish with a distinct and innovative touch. Set atop a skyscraper, overlooking the Pearl River in Zhu Jiang New Town, the restaurant boasts some of the most breathtaking views of the city, which are especially enchanting at night. For an unforgettable gastronomic experience that combines tantalizing flavors with mesmerizing vistas, Sky No.1 is an absolute must-visit on your culinary journey. Reservations are an absolute must. Sara’s favorite dishes: Dim Sum 点心 and Lobster Noodles 伊面焗龙虾 Price: $$$ Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Phone: +86 2037857111 Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 Crispy Pork Belly at Jiang by Chef Fei Restaurant (photo courtesy of Jiang by Chef Fei) With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Price: $$$ Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 Bingsheng dining area (photo courtesy of Bingsheng Pinwei) With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Price: $$ Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Phone: +86 2038088888 Best Hole in the Wall in Guangzhou Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 Cheung Fun (steamed rice noodle rolls) Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian is widely recognized for having serving the best-steamed rice noodle roll in Guangzhou since 1958. With numerous outlets across the city, their delectable offerings can be found just about anywhere in town. Known for their well-balanced combination of flavorful fillings and smooth steamed rice skin, Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian has become a popular destination for rice noodle lovers. Prepare for a vibrant dining experience with shared tables and a lively atmosphere. The restaurant opens at 6:30 in the morning and continues serving until the food is sold out, usually around noon. Sara’s favorite dishes: Steamed Roll Rice Noodles 蒸肠粉 and Porridge生滚粥 Price: $ Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 The historic French interior of Orient Express (photo courtesy of Orient Express) Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Price: $$$ Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Guangzhou Sky No.1 – 空中一号 Seafood soup (photo courtesy of Sky № 1) If you want your lasting memory of Guangzhou to be a meal, then Sky No.1 is your place. Located along the riverbank, Sky No.1 is renowned for its delectable food and exceptional service. Apart from serving Cantonese classics, the restaurant offers an exceptional live seafood selection, including wild-caught Indonesian giant spiny lobster and Australian crystal crab. The head chef’s extensive culinary journey across China infuses each dish with a distinct and innovative touch. Set atop a skyscraper, overlooking the Pearl River in Zhu Jiang New Town, the restaurant boasts some of the most breathtaking views of the city, which are especially enchanting at night. For an unforgettable gastronomic experience that combines tantalizing flavors with mesmerizing vistas, Sky No.1 is an absolute must-visit on your culinary journey. Reservations are an absolute must. Sara’s favorite dishes: Dim Sum 点心 and Lobster Noodles 伊面焗龙虾 Price: $$$ Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Phone: +86 2037857111 Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 Crispy Pork Belly at Jiang by Chef Fei Restaurant (photo courtesy of Jiang by Chef Fei) With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Price: $$$ Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 Bingsheng dining area (photo courtesy of Bingsheng Pinwei) With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Price: $$ Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Phone: +86 2038088888 Best Hole in the Wall in Guangzhou Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 Cheung Fun (steamed rice noodle rolls) Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian is widely recognized for having serving the best-steamed rice noodle roll in Guangzhou since 1958. With numerous outlets across the city, their delectable offerings can be found just about anywhere in town. Known for their well-balanced combination of flavorful fillings and smooth steamed rice skin, Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian has become a popular destination for rice noodle lovers. Prepare for a vibrant dining experience with shared tables and a lively atmosphere. The restaurant opens at 6:30 in the morning and continues serving until the food is sold out, usually around noon. Sara’s favorite dishes: Steamed Roll Rice Noodles 蒸肠粉 and Porridge生滚粥 Price: $ Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 The historic French interior of Orient Express (photo courtesy of Orient Express) Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Price: $$$ Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Guangzhou Sky No.1 – 空中一号 Seafood soup (photo courtesy of Sky № 1) If you want your lasting memory of Guangzhou to be a meal, then Sky No.1 is your place. Located along the riverbank, Sky No.1 is renowned for its delectable food and exceptional service. Apart from serving Cantonese classics, the restaurant offers an exceptional live seafood selection, including wild-caught Indonesian giant spiny lobster and Australian crystal crab. The head chef’s extensive culinary journey across China infuses each dish with a distinct and innovative touch. Set atop a skyscraper, overlooking the Pearl River in Zhu Jiang New Town, the restaurant boasts some of the most breathtaking views of the city, which are especially enchanting at night. For an unforgettable gastronomic experience that combines tantalizing flavors with mesmerizing vistas, Sky No.1 is an absolute must-visit on your culinary journey. Reservations are an absolute must. Sara’s favorite dishes: Dim Sum 点心 and Lobster Noodles 伊面焗龙虾 Price: $$$ Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Phone: +86 2037857111 Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 Crispy Pork Belly at Jiang by Chef Fei Restaurant (photo courtesy of Jiang by Chef Fei) With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Price: $$$ Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 Bingsheng dining area (photo courtesy of Bingsheng Pinwei) With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Price: $$ Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Phone: +86 2038088888 Best Hole in the Wall in Guangzhou Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 Cheung Fun (steamed rice noodle rolls) Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian is widely recognized for having serving the best-steamed rice noodle roll in Guangzhou since 1958. With numerous outlets across the city, their delectable offerings can be found just about anywhere in town. Known for their well-balanced combination of flavorful fillings and smooth steamed rice skin, Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian has become a popular destination for rice noodle lovers. Prepare for a vibrant dining experience with shared tables and a lively atmosphere. The restaurant opens at 6:30 in the morning and continues serving until the food is sold out, usually around noon. Sara’s favorite dishes: Steamed Roll Rice Noodles 蒸肠粉 and Porridge生滚粥 Price: $ Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 The historic French interior of Orient Express (photo courtesy of Orient Express) Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Price: $$$ Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Guangzhou Sky No.1 – 空中一号 Seafood soup (photo courtesy of Sky № 1) If you want your lasting memory of Guangzhou to be a meal, then Sky No.1 is your place. Located along the riverbank, Sky No.1 is renowned for its delectable food and exceptional service. Apart from serving Cantonese classics, the restaurant offers an exceptional live seafood selection, including wild-caught Indonesian giant spiny lobster and Australian crystal crab. The head chef’s extensive culinary journey across China infuses each dish with a distinct and innovative touch. Set atop a skyscraper, overlooking the Pearl River in Zhu Jiang New Town, the restaurant boasts some of the most breathtaking views of the city, which are especially enchanting at night. For an unforgettable gastronomic experience that combines tantalizing flavors with mesmerizing vistas, Sky No.1 is an absolute must-visit on your culinary journey. Reservations are an absolute must. Sara’s favorite dishes: Dim Sum 点心 and Lobster Noodles 伊面焗龙虾 Price: $$$ Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Phone: +86 2037857111 Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 Crispy Pork Belly at Jiang by Chef Fei Restaurant (photo courtesy of Jiang by Chef Fei) With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Price: $$$ Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 Bingsheng dining area (photo courtesy of Bingsheng Pinwei) With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Price: $$ Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Phone: +86 2038088888 Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 Crispy Pork Belly at Jiang by Chef Fei Restaurant (photo courtesy of Jiang by Chef Fei) With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Price: $$$ Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 Bingsheng dining area (photo courtesy of Bingsheng Pinwei) With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Price: $$ Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Phone: +86 2038088888 Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Who better to list out the best places to eat in Guangzhou than a Guangdong native? WildChina travel designer Sara Liu is as true to the province as they come – a Hakka descendent and a lover of all things food – and she’s sharing all her local’s-only tips on where to eat in Guangzhou. Cantonese cuisine is hands down one of the most well-known and influential regional cuisines in all of China, famous for its delicate flavors and fresh ingredients. For anyone hoping to eat their way through the province, one mouthwatering Cantonese dish at a time, here’s our list of the best places to dine on dim sum, indulge in succulent roasted meats like char siu (barbecued pork) and dive into the freshest seafood. Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 • Best Gourmet Restaurant in GuangzhouJiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 • Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 • The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in GuangzhouBingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 • Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 • Best Hole in the Wall in GuangzhouYin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 • Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 • The Trendy Restaurant in GuangzhouOrient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 • Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 • WOW-Factor Dining Experience in GuangzhouSky No.1 – 空中一号 • Sky No.1 – 空中一号 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 Crispy Pork Belly at Jiang by Chef Fei Restaurant (photo courtesy of Jiang by Chef Fei) With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Price: $$$ Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 Bingsheng dining area (photo courtesy of Bingsheng Pinwei) With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Price: $$ Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 Crispy Pork Belly at Jiang by Chef Fei Restaurant (photo courtesy of Jiang by Chef Fei) With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Price: $$$ Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 Bingsheng dining area (photo courtesy of Bingsheng Pinwei) With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Price: $$ Best Gourmet Restaurant in Guangzhou Jiang by Chef Fei – 江-由辉师傅主理 With its prestigious two Michelin stars and elegant, relaxing decor, this restaurant promises an exceptional dining experience. The classic Cantonese fare strikes a perfect balance between cherished traditions and innovative culinary techniques, enhanced by subtle influences from Japanese and Western cuisine. Under the masterful guidance of Chef Fei, the menu showcases the finest seasonal ingredients, prepared with meticulous care and in accordance with time-honored traditions. The result is a delightful symphony of flavors that will excite and satisfy the taste buds in equal measure. Among the many options, be sure to sample the Cantonese classics of dim sum, roast goose and char siu! Sara’s favorite dishes: Roasted Wenchang Chicken with Flaxseeds 亚麻籽烧鸡 and Steamed Hele Crab with Minced Pork 和乐蟹蒸手打肉饼 Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Location: 3F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 389 Tianhe Road 天河区天河路389号 Phone: +86 2087518682 / +86 2087518683 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Guangzhou Bingsheng Pinwei – 炳胜品味 With a rich history as an old Cantonese restaurant, Bingsheng Pinwei has long upheld a tradition of ensuring exceptional quality for their guests. From cold dishes to fried delicacies and soul-warming soups, every dish is meticulously prepared using carefully selected ingredients. The restaurant’s environment carries a distinct aura reminiscent of the old South, creating a nostalgic atmosphere that adds a touch of timeless charm to the overall dining experience. Bingsheng Pinwei takes the greatest pride in showcasing its exceptional “four beauties” – crispy char siu, soy-marinated pork trotters, pork tripe and goose intestines. For larger groups, the jumbo-sized pineapple buns are a must-try, best savored when ordered by the half dozen. And, as a closing tidbit, beyond the restaurant’s famed homestyle Cantonese dishes, it is also locally renowned for its sashimi, which is definitely worth a try. Sara’s favorite dishes: Char Siu (Barbecued Pork) 叉烧, Silky Tofu 水晶豆腐 and Durian Cakes 榴莲酥 Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Location: 1-2/F, Shibei Hotel, No.168 Tianhe East Road, Tianhe District 天河区天河东路168号石牌酒店1-2楼 Phone: +86 2038088888 Best Hole in the Wall in Guangzhou Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 Cheung Fun (steamed rice noodle rolls) Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian is widely recognized for having serving the best-steamed rice noodle roll in Guangzhou since 1958. With numerous outlets across the city, their delectable offerings can be found just about anywhere in town. Known for their well-balanced combination of flavorful fillings and smooth steamed rice skin, Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian has become a popular destination for rice noodle lovers. Prepare for a vibrant dining experience with shared tables and a lively atmosphere. The restaurant opens at 6:30 in the morning and continues serving until the food is sold out, usually around noon. Sara’s favorite dishes: Steamed Roll Rice Noodles 蒸肠粉 and Porridge生滚粥 Price: $ Best Hole in the Wall in Guangzhou Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 Cheung Fun (steamed rice noodle rolls) Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian is widely recognized for having serving the best-steamed rice noodle roll in Guangzhou since 1958. With numerous outlets across the city, their delectable offerings can be found just about anywhere in town. Known for their well-balanced combination of flavorful fillings and smooth steamed rice skin, Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian has become a popular destination for rice noodle lovers. Prepare for a vibrant dining experience with shared tables and a lively atmosphere. The restaurant opens at 6:30 in the morning and continues serving until the food is sold out, usually around noon. Sara’s favorite dishes: Steamed Roll Rice Noodles 蒸肠粉 and Porridge生滚粥 Price: $ Best Hole in the Wall in Guangzhou Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian – 银记肠粉店 Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian is widely recognized for having serving the best-steamed rice noodle roll in Guangzhou since 1958. With numerous outlets across the city, their delectable offerings can be found just about anywhere in town. Known for their well-balanced combination of flavorful fillings and smooth steamed rice skin, Yin Ji Chang Fen Dian has become a popular destination for rice noodle lovers. Prepare for a vibrant dining experience with shared tables and a lively atmosphere. The restaurant opens at 6:30 in the morning and continues serving until the food is sold out, usually around noon. Sara’s favorite dishes: Steamed Roll Rice Noodles 蒸肠粉 and Porridge生滚粥 Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Phone: +86 2083177149 Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Phone: +86 2083177149 Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Location: Hui Fu East Road 519 惠福东路519号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 The historic French interior of Orient Express (photo courtesy of Orient Express) Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Price: $$$ Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 The historic French interior of Orient Express (photo courtesy of Orient Express) Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Price: $$$ Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 The historic French interior of Orient Express (photo courtesy of Orient Express) Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Price: $$$ Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 The historic French interior of Orient Express (photo courtesy of Orient Express) Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Price: $$$ Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 The Trendy Restaurant in Guangzhou Orient Express French Restaurant – 火车头法国西餐厅 Orient Express, a French restaurant managed by French professionals, offers a truly authentic dining experience that captures the essence of French cuisine without any compromise. Unlike many “Western,” “French,” or “Italian” restaurants in China that offer approximate interpretations, Orient Express is committed to serving genuine French dishes. Located on Shamian Island, the historical French Concession, the restaurant is a nod to a Guangzhou past. In addition to the main dining room, the restaurant features two train wagons in the garden, providing a romantic setting for an unforgettable dining experience. Sara’s favorite dishes: Bourgogne Snails 勃艮第烤蜗牛, Pan-fried Goose Liver with Strawberries 法式香煎鹅肝, Traditional French Bourguignon Beef 传统法国勃艮第牛肉 and Pan-fried Sea Bass 煎烤海鲈鱼 Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Location: No.1 North Shamian Street, Shamian Island 荔湾区沙面北街1号 Phone: +86 13925047330 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Guangzhou Sky No.1 – 空中一号 Seafood soup (photo courtesy of Sky № 1) If you want your lasting memory of Guangzhou to be a meal, then Sky No.1 is your place. Located along the riverbank, Sky No.1 is renowned for its delectable food and exceptional service. Apart from serving Cantonese classics, the restaurant offers an exceptional live seafood selection, including wild-caught Indonesian giant spiny lobster and Australian crystal crab. The head chef’s extensive culinary journey across China infuses each dish with a distinct and innovative touch. Set atop a skyscraper, overlooking the Pearl River in Zhu Jiang New Town, the restaurant boasts some of the most breathtaking views of the city, which are especially enchanting at night. For an unforgettable gastronomic experience that combines tantalizing flavors with mesmerizing vistas, Sky No.1 is an absolute must-visit on your culinary journey. Reservations are an absolute must. Sara’s favorite dishes: Dim Sum 点心 and Lobster Noodles 伊面焗龙虾 Price: $$$ Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Phone: +86 2037857111 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Guangzhou Sky No.1 – 空中一号 Seafood soup (photo courtesy of Sky № 1) If you want your lasting memory of Guangzhou to be a meal, then Sky No.1 is your place. Located along the riverbank, Sky No.1 is renowned for its delectable food and exceptional service. Apart from serving Cantonese classics, the restaurant offers an exceptional live seafood selection, including wild-caught Indonesian giant spiny lobster and Australian crystal crab. The head chef’s extensive culinary journey across China infuses each dish with a distinct and innovative touch. Set atop a skyscraper, overlooking the Pearl River in Zhu Jiang New Town, the restaurant boasts some of the most breathtaking views of the city, which are especially enchanting at night. For an unforgettable gastronomic experience that combines tantalizing flavors with mesmerizing vistas, Sky No.1 is an absolute must-visit on your culinary journey. Reservations are an absolute must. Sara’s favorite dishes: Dim Sum 点心 and Lobster Noodles 伊面焗龙虾 Price: $$$ Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Phone: +86 2037857111 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Guangzhou If you want your lasting memory of Guangzhou to be a meal, then Sky No.1 is your place. Located along the riverbank, Sky No.1 is renowned for its delectable food and exceptional service. Apart from serving Cantonese classics, the restaurant offers an exceptional live seafood selection, including wild-caught Indonesian giant spiny lobster and Australian crystal crab. The head chef’s extensive culinary journey across China infuses each dish with a distinct and innovative touch. Set atop a skyscraper, overlooking the Pearl River in Zhu Jiang New Town, the restaurant boasts some of the most breathtaking views of the city, which are especially enchanting at night. For an unforgettable gastronomic experience that combines tantalizing flavors with mesmerizing vistas, Sky No.1 is an absolute must-visit on your culinary journey. Reservations are an absolute must. Sara’s favorite dishes: Dim Sum 点心 and Lobster Noodles 伊面焗龙虾 Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Location: 28-31F, Xinhe Building, 1 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town 天河区华夏路1号信合大厦28-32层 Phone: +86 2037857111