ID: 5a2a00f275d84c0c
Title: The Best Hotels in Hangzhou | WildChina Blog
URL: https://wildchina.com/2018/05/the-best-hotels-in-hangzhou/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2018-05-08T15:21:09+08:00
Tags: the Hyatt Regency, Hangzhou, hotels, the Amanfayun, the Four Seasons
================================================================================

The city of Hangzhou is nestled in the thriving Yangtze River Delta and provides a relaxing escape from bustling Shanghai. Hangzhou’s magnificent West Lake (the inspiration for a man-made version in Beijing’s Summer Palace) provides amazing daytime views and boasts an equally impressive nightlife. The West Lake Scenic Area is definitely the best place to stay in Hangzhou and here are our favorite hotels in the area. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Four Seasons This famous luxury brand is well represented by its Hangzhou version – five-star elegance with 78 guest rooms and suites, 11 private dining rooms and three pagoda style villas with indoor pools. The hotel sits on the North-West corner of the lake and most rooms have views of traditional Chinese gardens. Enjoy boating on the lake easily from the hotel or, further afield, go tea picking in the Long Jing Rice Terraces. The Four Seasons is WildChina’s preferred partner in Hangzhou and we find that its the best fit for most of our clients. It is right near West Lake, so transportation is a breeze and the stunning scenery is complemented by exceptional service from the staff. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Hyatt Regency Another large 5-star hotel with 390 rooms, the Hyatt Regency provides modern decor and amenities, overlooking the West Lake. It is located in the new lakeside pedestrian zone giving easy access to shopping and entertainment near the Broken Bridge. Signature features are a health spa with indoor pool and top quality restaurants – including 28 Hubin Road offering authentic Hangzhou cuisine. Walk further along the lake towards downtown and you will see many locals dancing in the open air in the evening. The Hyatt Regency is another hotel recommended by WildChina for its location right on the edge of West Lake. Talk to a WildChina travel designer and we’ll help you decide if The Hyatt Regency is the perfect choice for your own tastes and itinerary. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Amanfayun This is a luxurious resort hotel, considered as a spiritual sanctuary reflecting Buddhist monastic traditions. It consists of 46 rooms, suites and villas with distinctive touches set in a former tea-plantation village. Among its relaxing features is a spa spread across five pavilions with seasonal treatments to relax you alongside traditional massage and reflexology. As would be expected in this location, the resort includes teahouses to relax and reflect in and some fine dining restaurants. The Amanfayun has a totally different ambience than the Four Seasons or Hyatt Regency. Close to the Lingyin Temple, the Amanfayun feels like a luxury resort that is the essence of the Aman Brand. The atmosphere is quieter, so it’s a great fit for clients who prefer a resort style accommodation away from the main action. Spending a luxurious weekend in Hangzhou is a great getaway in and of itself, or it can be added to any itinerary that stops in Shanghai. WildChina can arrange a private boat for on West Lake, which can include a picnic and live music from a pipa player. Other must-sees are the Ling Yin Temple, a huge Buddhist Temple set in the park of Fei Lai Peak in North West Hangzhou and the Ancient Cultural Street- a pedestrian street and a mecca for souvenir hunting and for finding two of Hangzhou’s most sought after products – tea and silk. The city of Hangzhou is nestled in the thriving Yangtze River Delta and provides a relaxing escape from bustling Shanghai. Hangzhou’s magnificent West Lake (the inspiration for a man-made version in Beijing’s Summer Palace) provides amazing daytime views and boasts an equally impressive nightlife. The West Lake Scenic Area is definitely the best place to stay in Hangzhou and here are our favorite hotels in the area. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Four Seasons This famous luxury brand is well represented by its Hangzhou version – five-star elegance with 78 guest rooms and suites, 11 private dining rooms and three pagoda style villas with indoor pools. The hotel sits on the North-West corner of the lake and most rooms have views of traditional Chinese gardens. Enjoy boating on the lake easily from the hotel or, further afield, go tea picking in the Long Jing Rice Terraces. The Four Seasons is WildChina’s preferred partner in Hangzhou and we find that its the best fit for most of our clients. It is right near West Lake, so transportation is a breeze and the stunning scenery is complemented by exceptional service from the staff. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Hyatt Regency Another large 5-star hotel with 390 rooms, the Hyatt Regency provides modern decor and amenities, overlooking the West Lake. It is located in the new lakeside pedestrian zone giving easy access to shopping and entertainment near the Broken Bridge. Signature features are a health spa with indoor pool and top quality restaurants – including 28 Hubin Road offering authentic Hangzhou cuisine. Walk further along the lake towards downtown and you will see many locals dancing in the open air in the evening. The Hyatt Regency is another hotel recommended by WildChina for its location right on the edge of West Lake. Talk to a WildChina travel designer and we’ll help you decide if The Hyatt Regency is the perfect choice for your own tastes and itinerary. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Amanfayun This is a luxurious resort hotel, considered as a spiritual sanctuary reflecting Buddhist monastic traditions. It consists of 46 rooms, suites and villas with distinctive touches set in a former tea-plantation village. Among its relaxing features is a spa spread across five pavilions with seasonal treatments to relax you alongside traditional massage and reflexology. As would be expected in this location, the resort includes teahouses to relax and reflect in and some fine dining restaurants. The Amanfayun has a totally different ambience than the Four Seasons or Hyatt Regency. Close to the Lingyin Temple, the Amanfayun feels like a luxury resort that is the essence of the Aman Brand. The atmosphere is quieter, so it’s a great fit for clients who prefer a resort style accommodation away from the main action. Spending a luxurious weekend in Hangzhou is a great getaway in and of itself, or it can be added to any itinerary that stops in Shanghai. WildChina can arrange a private boat for on West Lake, which can include a picnic and live music from a pipa player. Other must-sees are the Ling Yin Temple, a huge Buddhist Temple set in the park of Fei Lai Peak in North West Hangzhou and the Ancient Cultural Street- a pedestrian street and a mecca for souvenir hunting and for finding two of Hangzhou’s most sought after products – tea and silk. The city of Hangzhou is nestled in the thriving Yangtze River Delta and provides a relaxing escape from bustling Shanghai. Hangzhou’s magnificent West Lake (the inspiration for a man-made version in Beijing’s Summer Palace) provides amazing daytime views and boasts an equally impressive nightlife. The West Lake Scenic Area is definitely the best place to stay in Hangzhou and here are our favorite hotels in the area. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Four Seasons This famous luxury brand is well represented by its Hangzhou version – five-star elegance with 78 guest rooms and suites, 11 private dining rooms and three pagoda style villas with indoor pools. The hotel sits on the North-West corner of the lake and most rooms have views of traditional Chinese gardens. Enjoy boating on the lake easily from the hotel or, further afield, go tea picking in the Long Jing Rice Terraces. The Four Seasons is WildChina’s preferred partner in Hangzhou and we find that its the best fit for most of our clients. It is right near West Lake, so transportation is a breeze and the stunning scenery is complemented by exceptional service from the staff. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Hyatt Regency Another large 5-star hotel with 390 rooms, the Hyatt Regency provides modern decor and amenities, overlooking the West Lake. It is located in the new lakeside pedestrian zone giving easy access to shopping and entertainment near the Broken Bridge. Signature features are a health spa with indoor pool and top quality restaurants – including 28 Hubin Road offering authentic Hangzhou cuisine. Walk further along the lake towards downtown and you will see many locals dancing in the open air in the evening. The Hyatt Regency is another hotel recommended by WildChina for its location right on the edge of West Lake. Talk to a WildChina travel designer and we’ll help you decide if The Hyatt Regency is the perfect choice for your own tastes and itinerary. Best Hotels in Hangzhou – The Amanfayun This is a luxurious resort hotel, considered as a spiritual sanctuary reflecting Buddhist monastic traditions. It consists of 46 rooms, suites and villas with distinctive touches set in a former tea-plantation village. Among its relaxing features is a spa spread across five pavilions with seasonal treatments to relax you alongside traditional massage and reflexology. As would be expected in this location, the resort includes teahouses to relax and reflect in and some fine dining restaurants. The Amanfayun has a totally different ambience than the Four Seasons or Hyatt Regency. Close to the Lingyin Temple, the Amanfayun feels like a luxury resort that is the essence of the Aman Brand. The atmosphere is quieter, so it’s a great fit for clients who prefer a resort style accommodation away from the main action. Spending a luxurious weekend in Hangzhou is a great getaway in and of itself, or it can be added to any itinerary that stops in Shanghai. WildChina can arrange a private boat for on West Lake, which can include a picnic and live music from a pipa player. Other must-sees are the Ling Yin Temple, a huge Buddhist Temple set in the park of Fei Lai Peak in North West Hangzhou and the Ancient Cultural Street- a pedestrian street and a mecca for souvenir hunting and for finding two of Hangzhou’s most sought after products – tea and silk.