ID: 611c110d988ac838
Title: WildChina does Classic China, too | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2016/09/wildchina-does-classic-china-too/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2016-09-06T05:05:26+08:00
Tags: Editor's Pick
================================================================================

We often receive the question “Does WildChina also do tours through traditional Chinese tourist destinations?” The short answer is yes, but here’s how we manage to give our clients the best that China has to offer: both wild and classic. – Although we’re probably better known for our luxury adventures that take travelers to the outer edges of China and select parts of southeast Asia, WildChina also loves showing travelers China’s classic sites and cities. Just don’t expect big tour buses and matching hats. This is how WildChina does the classics. Beijing The Forbidden City and Great Wall are must-sees on a trip to China, but seeing the sights can be trying when they’re overcrowded. Here’s how to make the experience live up to the hype: Follow our expert guide to the Forbidden City and find out the myths, legends and history that these many courtyards have witnessed. Go behind the scenes at Emperor Qianlong’s private gardens, a hidden corner of the palace that few are allowed access to. WildChina tours are given access to this part of the Forbidden City that is off limits to most tourists. This is how to see China’s imperial palace like royalty. On the Great Wall, WildChina will provide a private champagne brunch prepared by an ayi (a friendly colloquial term for local housekeepers) while you take in the vistas of clouds and hills rolling away in the distance. Shanghai Go beyond the metropolitan exterior of modern Shanghai and explore unknown stories of the city’s past. Walk down 19th-century longtang lanes and visit shikumen residences where you can overhear everyday local stories. For an extra special and rare treat, embark on a Jewish history tour with our local expert for real-life accounts from Jewish refugees who lived in Shanghai during World War II. It’s not your typical tour of Shanghai. Xi’an Delve into China’s past at the underground territory of Emperor Qin’s famed Terracotta Army. Ask our expert guides about the detailed differences of facial expressions, gestures, clothing and ranks between each warrior. Here’s another aspect of history you can get your hands on: learn about the ancient expressive art of Chinese calligraphy at a calligraphy masterclass. Recently, Michelle Obama joined us on our Xi’an tour- it’s a tour worthy of the first lady! Chengdu Chengdu is home to China’s national mascot, the panda. A great way to make your visit more memorable is by opting for private access at a panda center – you might even get to hold baby pandas! Alternatively, be a panda volunteer and learn to prepare food, clean enclosures and care for these animals with our local panda expert. Then, go on a cultural odyssey and experience the vivid spectacle that is the distinctive Sichuan Opera, and follow us backstage to meet with the performers. WildChina does the classics with our own unique spin: giving you unprecedented access to rare sites that most tourists overlook. When you travel with us, our local experts and talented guides will provide you with the tour of a lifetime whether its out in the wild or in the more popular tourist destinations. – Every year we host small group departures for our most popular WildChina Classic Collection Tours. You can check out Classic China with our WildChina touch on our tours Chinese Treasures and Essence of China. We’re looking forward to traveling with you. We often receive the question “Does WildChina also do tours through traditional Chinese tourist destinations?” The short answer is yes, but here’s how we manage to give our clients the best that China has to offer: both wild and classic. – Although we’re probably better known for our luxury adventures that take travelers to the outer edges of China and select parts of southeast Asia, WildChina also loves showing travelers China’s classic sites and cities. Just don’t expect big tour buses and matching hats. This is how WildChina does the classics. Beijing The Forbidden City and Great Wall are must-sees on a trip to China, but seeing the sights can be trying when they’re overcrowded. Here’s how to make the experience live up to the hype: Follow our expert guide to the Forbidden City and find out the myths, legends and history that these many courtyards have witnessed. Go behind the scenes at Emperor Qianlong’s private gardens, a hidden corner of the palace that few are allowed access to. WildChina tours are given access to this part of the Forbidden City that is off limits to most tourists. This is how to see China’s imperial palace like royalty. On the Great Wall, WildChina will provide a private champagne brunch prepared by an ayi (a friendly colloquial term for local housekeepers) while you take in the vistas of clouds and hills rolling away in the distance. Shanghai Go beyond the metropolitan exterior of modern Shanghai and explore unknown stories of the city’s past. Walk down 19th-century longtang lanes and visit shikumen residences where you can overhear everyday local stories. For an extra special and rare treat, embark on a Jewish history tour with our local expert for real-life accounts from Jewish refugees who lived in Shanghai during World War II. It’s not your typical tour of Shanghai. Xi’an Delve into China’s past at the underground territory of Emperor Qin’s famed Terracotta Army. Ask our expert guides about the detailed differences of facial expressions, gestures, clothing and ranks between each warrior. Here’s another aspect of history you can get your hands on: learn about the ancient expressive art of Chinese calligraphy at a calligraphy masterclass. Recently, Michelle Obama joined us on our Xi’an tour- it’s a tour worthy of the first lady! Chengdu Chengdu is home to China’s national mascot, the panda. A great way to make your visit more memorable is by opting for private access at a panda center – you might even get to hold baby pandas! Alternatively, be a panda volunteer and learn to prepare food, clean enclosures and care for these animals with our local panda expert. Then, go on a cultural odyssey and experience the vivid spectacle that is the distinctive Sichuan Opera, and follow us backstage to meet with the performers. WildChina does the classics with our own unique spin: giving you unprecedented access to rare sites that most tourists overlook. When you travel with us, our local experts and talented guides will provide you with the tour of a lifetime whether its out in the wild or in the more popular tourist destinations. – Every year we host small group departures for our most popular WildChina Classic Collection Tours. You can check out Classic China with our WildChina touch on our tours Chinese Treasures and Essence of China. We’re looking forward to traveling with you. We often receive the question “Does WildChina also do tours through traditional Chinese tourist destinations?” The short answer is yes, but here’s how we manage to give our clients the best that China has to offer: both wild and classic. Although we’re probably better known for our luxury adventures that take travelers to the outer edges of China and select parts of southeast Asia, WildChina also loves showing travelers China’s classic sites and cities. Just don’t expect big tour buses and matching hats. This is how WildChina does the classics. The Forbidden City and Great Wall are must-sees on a trip to China, but seeing the sights can be trying when they’re overcrowded. Here’s how to make the experience live up to the hype: Follow our expert guide to the Forbidden City and find out the myths, legends and history that these many courtyards have witnessed. Go behind the scenes at Emperor Qianlong’s private gardens, a hidden corner of the palace that few are allowed access to. WildChina tours are given access to this part of the Forbidden City that is off limits to most tourists. This is how to see China’s imperial palace like royalty. On the Great Wall, WildChina will provide a private champagne brunch prepared by an ayi (a friendly colloquial term for local housekeepers) while you take in the vistas of clouds and hills rolling away in the distance. Go beyond the metropolitan exterior of modern Shanghai and explore unknown stories of the city’s past. Walk down 19th-century longtang lanes and visit shikumen residences where you can overhear everyday local stories. For an extra special and rare treat, embark on a Jewish history tour with our local expert for real-life accounts from Jewish refugees who lived in Shanghai during World War II. It’s not your typical tour of Shanghai. Delve into China’s past at the underground territory of Emperor Qin’s famed Terracotta Army. Ask our expert guides about the detailed differences of facial expressions, gestures, clothing and ranks between each warrior. Here’s another aspect of history you can get your hands on: learn about the ancient expressive art of Chinese calligraphy at a calligraphy masterclass. Recently, Michelle Obama joined us on our Xi’an tour- it’s a tour worthy of the first lady! Chengdu is home to China’s national mascot, the panda. A great way to make your visit more memorable is by opting for private access at a panda center – you might even get to hold baby pandas! Alternatively, be a panda volunteer and learn to prepare food, clean enclosures and care for these animals with our local panda expert. Then, go on a cultural odyssey and experience the vivid spectacle that is the distinctive Sichuan Opera, and follow us backstage to meet with the performers. WildChina does the classics with our own unique spin: giving you unprecedented access to rare sites that most tourists overlook. When you travel with us, our local experts and talented guides will provide you with the tour of a lifetime whether its out in the wild or in the more popular tourist destinations. Every year we host small group departures for our most popular WildChina Classic Collection Tours. You can check out Classic China with our WildChina touch on our tours Chinese Treasures and Essence of China. We’re looking forward to traveling with you.