ID: 48487e6a567097f0
Title: Make These "Houses" Your Home in China | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2017/02/make-these-houses-your-home-in-china/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2017-02-10T15:32:50+08:00
Tags: Editor's Pick
================================================================================

Today’s discerning traveler demands accommodation that offers more than just a pillow to rest under your weary head. We are looking for a place of comfort, convenience, and style. For us, here at WildChina, the House Collective properties in Beijing, Chengdu and Hong Kong offer everything you need. – The House Collective is an award-winning group of luxury boutique hotels defined by understated elegance, immense attention to detail and brilliantly attentive staff. Source: The Temple House Through work with renowned architects and designers, each hotel in the collection possesses a recognizable character and flair, promising warm and unforgettable experiences. Let’s take a look at what you’ll find inside. THE OPPOSITE HOUSE, Beijing Source: The Opposite House The Opposite House captures the spirit of Beijing – a city which straddles both the past and present – with its fusion of slick, futuristic design and traditional Chinese embellishments. Boasting 99 well-lit and spacious rooms, a contemporary lounge bar and three restaurants, The Opposite House’s striking looks are thanks to avant-garde designer Keno Kuma. Great art The Opposite House exudes a rich artistic spirit and showcases an international roster of artists. The house blends practicality and artistry, turning the entrance atrium into a space for striking art installations. Red Gate Gallery, an authority in China’s contemporary art scene, has a residency here and delivers exciting new exhibitions every quarter. Wining and dining The Opposite House is home to four restaurants and bars, offering Chinese, Mediterranean and international cuisine. All feature the cool, subtle sophistication of the hotel. For a taste of southern Europe, dine at Sureño, where you can watch chefs wood-fire your pizza in the open concept kitchen. What’s more, the neighboring Sanlitun Village has a wealth of high-end shopping, wining and dining options – it’s the place to be seen in the capital. What you might want to know ahead of time The modern minimalistic design is infused in all the details of the hotel, even the light switches in the bathroom blend in seamlessly and can be easily missed. We recommend paying attention to the room introduction given by the host who will take you up to your room! The hotel is located in the middle of the hip shopping and bar district of Beijing, tranquility amidst of the bustling urban center. Traffic can be a bit of a challenge though so booking a WildChina driver who knows the back ways is vital. Make sure you stroll by a store called Branded New China next door to the hotel in lower level of Sanlitun North village. This is China’s effort to recreate Barneys New York in Beijing and consistently features current Chinese designers. THE UPPER HOUSE, Hong Kong Source: The Upper House A fusion of British colonial history and Chinese culture collide in Hong Kong, Asia’s glittering financial hub. The city center is renowned for luxurious hotels, yet The Upper House sets itself apart with its meticulous design and unique ambiance. Its 117 studios and suites are remarkably roomy, and only begin on the 38th floor, offering refuge from the bustle of the streets below. Killer views How would you admire Asia’s most iconic harbor? With a fine dish, maybe a cocktail in your hand, or even from a bathtub? With The Upper House you can enjoy all three. Catch the impressive city views in the hotel’s Café Gray Deluxe, or from the trendy interior of Café Gray Bar. Then, for a more pampered experience, appreciate it from the comfort of your own bathtub. The Lawn The Lawn is a favorite among guests, offering a secret garden in which to relax and unwind with a cold beer or glass of wine. Complimentary yoga classes take place on The Lawn each weekend, ensuring that the fast tempo of the city doesn’t get to you. What you might want to know ahead of time This hotel is located smack in the middle of Hong Kong’s CBD, which is buzzing with dining and shopping options even in the evenings. If you invite a guest to join you for breakfast or dinner here, NO ONE in Hong Kong would mind, because it’s so convenient. There is also a jogging path that will take you straight to the Victoria Peak, from the hotel, if you are up to the vertical challenge. Ask the concierge or your WildChina Guide for directions. As WildChina testers, we only wished we gave ourselves more time at the hotel to enjoy a long relaxing bath. THE TEMPLE HOUSE, Chengdu Source: The Temple House Chengdu is the cosmopolitan hub of southwest China, known for giant pandas, a quaint teahouse culture and fiery cuisine. The vibes of Chengdu are markedly more relaxed than other cities in China, and this laid-back sensibility is echoed by The Temple House’s style. This boutique hotel was built into an ancient temple and beautifully marries modern chic with an old world aesthetic. Courtyards, teahouses and spas within provide space to breathe; while a luxury shopping district is a mere stone’s throw away, satisfying the needs of all. Amazing architecture The hotel’s architecture pays homage to Chengdu’s architectural heritage, bringing the interior to life with color and mood. This includes a beautiful façade that welcomes you into a restored Qing dynasty courtyard, together with remarkable contemporary design that takes after South China’s iconic rice terraces. Pampering and fitness “MI XUN” is a luxury day spa that will take the edge off things with its tranquil atmosphere and outstanding facilities. Spa treatments include massage, body treatments and even barber services. Dip into the pool, with its remarkable sculpted overhead lighting, or hit the in-house gym – feel at ease, as this is nothing less than a “sanctuary of wellness”. What you might want to know ahead of time There is a great bookstore called Fangsuo Bookstore right next door to hotel. This is China’s example of pushing the boundaries of creativity. The bookstore often has fashion shows, interesting book talks, and the space itself is very creative. make sure you leave time to go and check it out. The hotel offers high-class non-Chinese cooking to complement the local cuisine of Chengdu. You can walk outside to the street corner noodle shop for a taste of the city’s spice and when you’re ready to give your tastebuds a break, The Temple House’s Italian restaurant Tivano can help you cool off. There are plenty of other reasons too why these three boutique hotels are among our preferred partners in Beijing, Chengdu, and Hong Kong. The minibar in every room is complimentary (except specially labeled wines) and guests who love to start their days with a caffeine boost have an in-house coffee maker at their disposal. What’s more, the service standard is always exemplary and the staff never fail to makes us feel right at home. — Ready to oversee Victoria Harbor with a flute of champagne in the bath or discuss the latest art installation in Beijing? The House Collective properties are our preferred choices on our Chinese Treasures and Hong Kong: Pearl of the Orient journeys. Today’s discerning traveler demands accommodation that offers more than just a pillow to rest under your weary head. We are looking for a place of comfort, convenience, and style. For us, here at WildChina, the House Collective properties in Beijing, Chengdu and Hong Kong offer everything you need. – The House Collective is an award-winning group of luxury boutique hotels defined by understated elegance, immense attention to detail and brilliantly attentive staff. Source: The Temple House Through work with renowned architects and designers, each hotel in the collection possesses a recognizable character and flair, promising warm and unforgettable experiences. Let’s take a look at what you’ll find inside. THE OPPOSITE HOUSE, Beijing Source: The Opposite House The Opposite House captures the spirit of Beijing – a city which straddles both the past and present – with its fusion of slick, futuristic design and traditional Chinese embellishments. Boasting 99 well-lit and spacious rooms, a contemporary lounge bar and three restaurants, The Opposite House’s striking looks are thanks to avant-garde designer Keno Kuma. Great art The Opposite House exudes a rich artistic spirit and showcases an international roster of artists. The house blends practicality and artistry, turning the entrance atrium into a space for striking art installations. Red Gate Gallery, an authority in China’s contemporary art scene, has a residency here and delivers exciting new exhibitions every quarter. Wining and dining The Opposite House is home to four restaurants and bars, offering Chinese, Mediterranean and international cuisine. All feature the cool, subtle sophistication of the hotel. For a taste of southern Europe, dine at Sureño, where you can watch chefs wood-fire your pizza in the open concept kitchen. What’s more, the neighboring Sanlitun Village has a wealth of high-end shopping, wining and dining options – it’s the place to be seen in the capital. What you might want to know ahead of time The modern minimalistic design is infused in all the details of the hotel, even the light switches in the bathroom blend in seamlessly and can be easily missed. We recommend paying attention to the room introduction given by the host who will take you up to your room! The hotel is located in the middle of the hip shopping and bar district of Beijing, tranquility amidst of the bustling urban center. Traffic can be a bit of a challenge though so booking a WildChina driver who knows the back ways is vital. Make sure you stroll by a store called Branded New China next door to the hotel in lower level of Sanlitun North village. This is China’s effort to recreate Barneys New York in Beijing and consistently features current Chinese designers. THE UPPER HOUSE, Hong Kong Source: The Upper House A fusion of British colonial history and Chinese culture collide in Hong Kong, Asia’s glittering financial hub. The city center is renowned for luxurious hotels, yet The Upper House sets itself apart with its meticulous design and unique ambiance. Its 117 studios and suites are remarkably roomy, and only begin on the 38th floor, offering refuge from the bustle of the streets below. Killer views How would you admire Asia’s most iconic harbor? With a fine dish, maybe a cocktail in your hand, or even from a bathtub? With The Upper House you can enjoy all three. Catch the impressive city views in the hotel’s Café Gray Deluxe, or from the trendy interior of Café Gray Bar. Then, for a more pampered experience, appreciate it from the comfort of your own bathtub. The Lawn The Lawn is a favorite among guests, offering a secret garden in which to relax and unwind with a cold beer or glass of wine. Complimentary yoga classes take place on The Lawn each weekend, ensuring that the fast tempo of the city doesn’t get to you. What you might want to know ahead of time This hotel is located smack in the middle of Hong Kong’s CBD, which is buzzing with dining and shopping options even in the evenings. If you invite a guest to join you for breakfast or dinner here, NO ONE in Hong Kong would mind, because it’s so convenient. There is also a jogging path that will take you straight to the Victoria Peak, from the hotel, if you are up to the vertical challenge. Ask the concierge or your WildChina Guide for directions. As WildChina testers, we only wished we gave ourselves more time at the hotel to enjoy a long relaxing bath. THE TEMPLE HOUSE, Chengdu Source: The Temple House Chengdu is the cosmopolitan hub of southwest China, known for giant pandas, a quaint teahouse culture and fiery cuisine. The vibes of Chengdu are markedly more relaxed than other cities in China, and this laid-back sensibility is echoed by The Temple House’s style. This boutique hotel was built into an ancient temple and beautifully marries modern chic with an old world aesthetic. Courtyards, teahouses and spas within provide space to breathe; while a luxury shopping district is a mere stone’s throw away, satisfying the needs of all. Amazing architecture The hotel’s architecture pays homage to Chengdu’s architectural heritage, bringing the interior to life with color and mood. This includes a beautiful façade that welcomes you into a restored Qing dynasty courtyard, together with remarkable contemporary design that takes after South China’s iconic rice terraces. Pampering and fitness “MI XUN” is a luxury day spa that will take the edge off things with its tranquil atmosphere and outstanding facilities. Spa treatments include massage, body treatments and even barber services. Dip into the pool, with its remarkable sculpted overhead lighting, or hit the in-house gym – feel at ease, as this is nothing less than a “sanctuary of wellness”. What you might want to know ahead of time There is a great bookstore called Fangsuo Bookstore right next door to hotel. This is China’s example of pushing the boundaries of creativity. The bookstore often has fashion shows, interesting book talks, and the space itself is very creative. make sure you leave time to go and check it out. The hotel offers high-class non-Chinese cooking to complement the local cuisine of Chengdu. You can walk outside to the street corner noodle shop for a taste of the city’s spice and when you’re ready to give your tastebuds a break, The Temple House’s Italian restaurant Tivano can help you cool off. There are plenty of other reasons too why these three boutique hotels are among our preferred partners in Beijing, Chengdu, and Hong Kong. The minibar in every room is complimentary (except specially labeled wines) and guests who love to start their days with a caffeine boost have an in-house coffee maker at their disposal. What’s more, the service standard is always exemplary and the staff never fail to makes us feel right at home. — Ready to oversee Victoria Harbor with a flute of champagne in the bath or discuss the latest art installation in Beijing? The House Collective properties are our preferred choices on our Chinese Treasures and Hong Kong: Pearl of the Orient journeys. Today’s discerning traveler demands accommodation that offers more than just a pillow to rest under your weary head. We are looking for a place of comfort, convenience, and style. For us, here at WildChina, the House Collective properties in Beijing, Chengdu and Hong Kong offer everything you need. The House Collective is an award-winning group of luxury boutique hotels defined by understated elegance, immense attention to detail and brilliantly attentive staff. Source: The Temple House Through work with renowned architects and designers, each hotel in the collection possesses a recognizable character and flair, promising warm and unforgettable experiences. Let’s take a look at what you’ll find inside. THE OPPOSITE HOUSE, Beijing Source: The Opposite House The Opposite House captures the spirit of Beijing – a city which straddles both the past and present – with its fusion of slick, futuristic design and traditional Chinese embellishments. Boasting 99 well-lit and spacious rooms, a contemporary lounge bar and three restaurants, The Opposite House’s striking looks are thanks to avant-garde designer Keno Kuma. The Opposite House exudes a rich artistic spirit and showcases an international roster of artists. The house blends practicality and artistry, turning the entrance atrium into a space for striking art installations. Red Gate Gallery, an authority in China’s contemporary art scene, has a residency here and delivers exciting new exhibitions every quarter. The Opposite House is home to four restaurants and bars, offering Chinese, Mediterranean and international cuisine. All feature the cool, subtle sophistication of the hotel. For a taste of southern Europe, dine at Sureño, where you can watch chefs wood-fire your pizza in the open concept kitchen. What’s more, the neighboring Sanlitun Village has a wealth of high-end shopping, wining and dining options – it’s the place to be seen in the capital. What you might want to know ahead of time The modern minimalistic design is infused in all the details of the hotel, even the light switches in the bathroom blend in seamlessly and can be easily missed. We recommend paying attention to the room introduction given by the host who will take you up to your room! The hotel is located in the middle of the hip shopping and bar district of Beijing, tranquility amidst of the bustling urban center. Traffic can be a bit of a challenge though so booking a WildChina driver who knows the back ways is vital. Make sure you stroll by a store called Branded New China next door to the hotel in lower level of Sanlitun North village. This is China’s effort to recreate Barneys New York in Beijing and consistently features current Chinese designers. THE UPPER HOUSE, Hong Kong Source: The Upper House A fusion of British colonial history and Chinese culture collide in Hong Kong, Asia’s glittering financial hub. The city center is renowned for luxurious hotels, yet The Upper House sets itself apart with its meticulous design and unique ambiance. Its 117 studios and suites are remarkably roomy, and only begin on the 38th floor, offering refuge from the bustle of the streets below. How would you admire Asia’s most iconic harbor? With a fine dish, maybe a cocktail in your hand, or even from a bathtub? With The Upper House you can enjoy all three. Catch the impressive city views in the hotel’s Café Gray Deluxe, or from the trendy interior of Café Gray Bar. Then, for a more pampered experience, appreciate it from the comfort of your own bathtub. The Lawn is a favorite among guests, offering a secret garden in which to relax and unwind with a cold beer or glass of wine. Complimentary yoga classes take place on The Lawn each weekend, ensuring that the fast tempo of the city doesn’t get to you. What you might want to know ahead of time This hotel is located smack in the middle of Hong Kong’s CBD, which is buzzing with dining and shopping options even in the evenings. If you invite a guest to join you for breakfast or dinner here, NO ONE in Hong Kong would mind, because it’s so convenient. There is also a jogging path that will take you straight to the Victoria Peak, from the hotel, if you are up to the vertical challenge. Ask the concierge or your WildChina Guide for directions. As WildChina testers, we only wished we gave ourselves more time at the hotel to enjoy a long relaxing bath. THE TEMPLE HOUSE, Chengdu Source: The Temple House Chengdu is the cosmopolitan hub of southwest China, known for giant pandas, a quaint teahouse culture and fiery cuisine. The vibes of Chengdu are markedly more relaxed than other cities in China, and this laid-back sensibility is echoed by The Temple House’s style. This boutique hotel was built into an ancient temple and beautifully marries modern chic with an old world aesthetic. Courtyards, teahouses and spas within provide space to breathe; while a luxury shopping district is a mere stone’s throw away, satisfying the needs of all. The hotel’s architecture pays homage to Chengdu’s architectural heritage, bringing the interior to life with color and mood. This includes a beautiful façade that welcomes you into a restored Qing dynasty courtyard, together with remarkable contemporary design that takes after South China’s iconic rice terraces. Pampering and fitness “MI XUN” is a luxury day spa that will take the edge off things with its tranquil atmosphere and outstanding facilities. Spa treatments include massage, body treatments and even barber services. Dip into the pool, with its remarkable sculpted overhead lighting, or hit the in-house gym – feel at ease, as this is nothing less than a “sanctuary of wellness”. What you might want to know ahead of time There is a great bookstore called Fangsuo Bookstore right next door to hotel. This is China’s example of pushing the boundaries of creativity. The bookstore often has fashion shows, interesting book talks, and the space itself is very creative. make sure you leave time to go and check it out. The hotel offers high-class non-Chinese cooking to complement the local cuisine of Chengdu. You can walk outside to the street corner noodle shop for a taste of the city’s spice and when you’re ready to give your tastebuds a break, The Temple House’s Italian restaurant Tivano can help you cool off. There are plenty of other reasons too why these three boutique hotels are among our preferred partners in Beijing, Chengdu, and Hong Kong. The minibar in every room is complimentary (except specially labeled wines) and guests who love to start their days with a caffeine boost have an in-house coffee maker at their disposal. What’s more, the service standard is always exemplary and the staff never fail to makes us feel right at home. Ready to oversee Victoria Harbor with a flute of champagne in the bath or discuss the latest art installation in Beijing? The House Collective properties are our preferred choices on our Chinese Treasures and Hong Kong: Pearl of the Orient journeys.