ID: 5fe367345c8df7a8
Title: Faces of WildChina: Isabel Wang 王璇   | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2023/10/faces-of-wildchina-isabel-wang-%e7%8e%8b%e7%92%87/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2023-10-02T19:45:57+08:00
Tags: Faces of WildChina, Team, WildChina
================================================================================

If a destination is an end point, then the journey is the people you encounter along the way. They are what change “good” to “great”, “standard” to “extraordinary”, and “memorable” to “life-changing”. Behind the smiling profile picture, the corporate email signature, the branded name tag, beats the true heart of WildChina; a vigorous network of personalities, dreams, and experiences driving magic and life through the company veins. So, meet the fairy godmothers(fathers) who take your China travel dreams, and not only grant them, but sprinkle a dusting of surprise throughout, so that even when you think you know what your Wildest dream looks like, something you didn’t even know existed is waiting to amaze. Isabel volunteering in Giant Panda Conservation Center in Chengdu Where are you from and where do you live now? I’m originally from Hebei province near Beijing. I went to university in the beautiful city of Hangzhou and lived in Beijing and Chengdu for many years. Now I reside in the coastal city of Xiamen. Was there a specific moment in your life when you realized travel is what you wanted to do for work? I’ve traveled frequently since I was a teenager. I have always enjoyed being on the road, visiting new places and meeting new people. What inspired me to work in the travel industry and has kept me here is the joy of creating happy and enduring moments and memories for our guests, as well as the human connections that go beyond any borders. Isabel volunteering in Chang Mai, Thailand Through your career, was there one piece of advice you received that really impacted how you do your job? Along the course of my career, I’ve had the privilege of working with and learning from many great individuals. One piece of advice I benefited from immensely when I first started at WildChina was that designing a trip with a client is like a dance. As travel designers, we should lead the dance and provide good guidance with our expertise. What is the best travel experience you’ve had so far? One of the most amazing experiences I’ve had was having special access to the rooftop of the Potala Palace in Lhasa, from where I could gaze into the majestic Tibetan lands with an unbeatable view. What is the most memorable trip you’ve planned for a traveler? I had a young couple traveling for about two weeks around China. They had a fabulous time. And during their last stop in Shanghai, they found out that they were pregnant with their second baby! They were so happy. Muslim Quarter, Xi’an What is the coolest WOW moment you’ve done for a traveler? I arranged a gourmet picnic lunch with champagne on a stunning section of the Great Wall. The clients were really WOWed by the beautiful setting, exceptional service and delicious food when they arrived at the surprise picnic after their hike. If you had to pick one thing that makes a trip outstanding (not just good, but great), what would it be? If I had to pick one thing that makes a trip outstanding it would be the true care and desire to make guests happy. Tell us three places on your travel bucket list and why: The top three places I would like to visit are: Central Asia for its incredible history and culture. A road trip through Europe for a food & wine deep dive. Mount Kailash in Tibet for a spiritual journey. What do you do when you aren’t working? (This can be family-oriented or a hobby or a sport etc.) When I’m not working, I enjoy spending some quality time with my loved ones, cooking, and, of course, traveling! Isabel in Ubud Temple, Bali What’s a fun fact about you that most people don’t know? I usually don’t eat duck, but my favorite food is Peking Duck! If a destination is an end point, then the journey is the people you encounter along the way. They are what change “good” to “great”, “standard” to “extraordinary”, and “memorable” to “life-changing”. Behind the smiling profile picture, the corporate email signature, the branded name tag, beats the true heart of WildChina; a vigorous network of personalities, dreams, and experiences driving magic and life through the company veins. So, meet the fairy godmothers(fathers) who take your China travel dreams, and not only grant them, but sprinkle a dusting of surprise throughout, so that even when you think you know what your Wildest dream looks like, something you didn’t even know existed is waiting to amaze. Isabel volunteering in Giant Panda Conservation Center in Chengdu Where are you from and where do you live now? I’m originally from Hebei province near Beijing. I went to university in the beautiful city of Hangzhou and lived in Beijing and Chengdu for many years. Now I reside in the coastal city of Xiamen. Was there a specific moment in your life when you realized travel is what you wanted to do for work? I’ve traveled frequently since I was a teenager. I have always enjoyed being on the road, visiting new places and meeting new people. What inspired me to work in the travel industry and has kept me here is the joy of creating happy and enduring moments and memories for our guests, as well as the human connections that go beyond any borders. Isabel volunteering in Chang Mai, Thailand Through your career, was there one piece of advice you received that really impacted how you do your job? Along the course of my career, I’ve had the privilege of working with and learning from many great individuals. One piece of advice I benefited from immensely when I first started at WildChina was that designing a trip with a client is like a dance. As travel designers, we should lead the dance and provide good guidance with our expertise. What is the best travel experience you’ve had so far? One of the most amazing experiences I’ve had was having special access to the rooftop of the Potala Palace in Lhasa, from where I could gaze into the majestic Tibetan lands with an unbeatable view. What is the most memorable trip you’ve planned for a traveler? I had a young couple traveling for about two weeks around China. They had a fabulous time. And during their last stop in Shanghai, they found out that they were pregnant with their second baby! They were so happy. Muslim Quarter, Xi’an What is the coolest WOW moment you’ve done for a traveler? I arranged a gourmet picnic lunch with champagne on a stunning section of the Great Wall. The clients were really WOWed by the beautiful setting, exceptional service and delicious food when they arrived at the surprise picnic after their hike. If you had to pick one thing that makes a trip outstanding (not just good, but great), what would it be? If I had to pick one thing that makes a trip outstanding it would be the true care and desire to make guests happy. Tell us three places on your travel bucket list and why: The top three places I would like to visit are: Central Asia for its incredible history and culture. A road trip through Europe for a food & wine deep dive. Mount Kailash in Tibet for a spiritual journey. What do you do when you aren’t working? (This can be family-oriented or a hobby or a sport etc.) When I’m not working, I enjoy spending some quality time with my loved ones, cooking, and, of course, traveling! Isabel in Ubud Temple, Bali What’s a fun fact about you that most people don’t know? I usually don’t eat duck, but my favorite food is Peking Duck! If a destination is an end point, then the journey is the people you encounter along the way. They are what change “good” to “great”, “standard” to “extraordinary”, and “memorable” to “life-changing”. Behind the smiling profile picture, the corporate email signature, the branded name tag, beats the true heart of WildChina; a vigorous network of personalities, dreams, and experiences driving magic and life through the company veins. So, meet the fairy godmothers(fathers) who take your China travel dreams, and not only grant them, but sprinkle a dusting of surprise throughout, so that even when you think you know what your Wildest dream looks like, something you didn’t even know existed is waiting to amaze. Isabel volunteering in Giant Panda Conservation Center in Chengdu Where are you from and where do you live now? I’m originally from Hebei province near Beijing. I went to university in the beautiful city of Hangzhou and lived in Beijing and Chengdu for many years. Now I reside in the coastal city of Xiamen. Was there a specific moment in your life when you realized travel is what you wanted to do for work? I’ve traveled frequently since I was a teenager. I have always enjoyed being on the road, visiting new places and meeting new people. What inspired me to work in the travel industry and has kept me here is the joy of creating happy and enduring moments and memories for our guests, as well as the human connections that go beyond any borders. Isabel volunteering in Chang Mai, Thailand Through your career, was there one piece of advice you received that really impacted how you do your job? Along the course of my career, I’ve had the privilege of working with and learning from many great individuals. One piece of advice I benefited from immensely when I first started at WildChina was that designing a trip with a client is like a dance. As travel designers, we should lead the dance and provide good guidance with our expertise. What is the best travel experience you’ve had so far? One of the most amazing experiences I’ve had was having special access to the rooftop of the Potala Palace in Lhasa, from where I could gaze into the majestic Tibetan lands with an unbeatable view. What is the most memorable trip you’ve planned for a traveler? I had a young couple traveling for about two weeks around China. They had a fabulous time. And during their last stop in Shanghai, they found out that they were pregnant with their second baby! They were so happy. Muslim Quarter, Xi’an What is the coolest WOW moment you’ve done for a traveler? I arranged a gourmet picnic lunch with champagne on a stunning section of the Great Wall. The clients were really WOWed by the beautiful setting, exceptional service and delicious food when they arrived at the surprise picnic after their hike. If you had to pick one thing that makes a trip outstanding (not just good, but great), what would it be? If I had to pick one thing that makes a trip outstanding it would be the true care and desire to make guests happy. Tell us three places on your travel bucket list and why: The top three places I would like to visit are: • Central Asia for its incredible history and culture. • A road trip through Europe for a food & wine deep dive. • Mount Kailash in Tibet for a spiritual journey. What do you do when you aren’t working? (This can be family-oriented or a hobby or a sport etc.) When I’m not working, I enjoy spending some quality time with my loved ones, cooking, and, of course, traveling! Isabel in Ubud Temple, Bali What’s a fun fact about you that most people don’t know? I usually don’t eat duck, but my favorite food is Peking Duck!