ID: 6c2ab9f5e1780314
Title: Extraordinary Ways to Visit Pandas in China | WildChina Blog
URL: https://wildchina.com/2018/02/visit-pandas-in-china/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2018-02-28T16:29:09+08:00
Tags: Insider Tips, Chengdu
================================================================================

The giant panda is China’s unofficial mascot and Sichuan, a province located almost directly in the middle of the country, has long been where these cherished animals have made their home. A number of breeding centers, reserves, and research facilities have been established in Sichuan to help protect the giant panda from extinction. These reserves offer the modern traveler plenty of extraordinary ways to visit pandas in their natural habitat. Here are some of our favorite ‘out of the ordinary’ ways to visit pandas in China: RELATED READING: Spice Up Your Life with Sichuan Travel Visit Pandas in China – Chengdu Panda Research Center The Chengdu Panda Breeding and Research Center is located within the city of Chengdu (the provincial capital) so it’s an easy reach for anyone who doesn’t have much time to spare. This center is focused on being educational and the keepers share a wealth of information with the visitors. You’ll learn about the vast quantity of bamboo a panda needs to consume each day and can even sample the biscuits that keepers designed specially to ensure the pandas get enough nutrients. A truly special treat (even better than trying the tasty biscuits) is that you may have a chance to see baby pandas here. Depending on the time of year, a number of cuddly babies will be being hand-reared by the keepers. In the Chengdu Breeding Center, you can be just a few meters away from some of the cutest baby animals on earth. If seeing baby pandas is high on your to-do list, ask your knowledgeable WildChina trip designer to suggest the best time of year to visit. RELATED READING: What to Do in Chengdu Visit Pandas in China – Dujiangyan Panda Reserve The Dujiangyan Panda Reserve is located 1.5 hours outside of Chengdu in the Qingcheng Mountains. The first panda sighting in Dujiangyan was in 1953 and since then, several wild pandas have been spotted in the area. The center was established with a primary goal of increasing the wild panda population – thus the grounds are designed to fit their natural habitat. In Dujiangyan, the keepers are training the pandas to survive and thrive in the wild. In Dujiangyan you’ll adventure through the bamboo-covered hills to seek out pandas and you can even volunteer for the day as a panda keeper. You’ll get to feed the pandas and clean out their enclosures. WildChina will also arrange for you to have lunch with the keepers, who’ll be happy to answer all your questions. This a great choice for families wanting to learn about this magnificent animal. RELATED READING: Best Places to See Pandas in Chengdu Visit Pandas in China – Tangjiahe Nature Reserve Tangjiahe Nature Reserve is located in the Sichuan basin and was established in 1978 to protect a diverse array of wildlife. Over 70 endangered​ species find a protected refuge in the reserve. WildChina can arrange an expert-led trek through the park where, again, you’ll learn how to track pandas. Along with the giant panda, this reserve is also home to golden snub-nosed monkeys and rare takin (a kind of ox). The local expert will explain how the reserve has taken huge steps to protect the giant panda and discuss the numerous scientific studies that take place in the park.​ Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, is about a 3-hour plane ride from either Beijing or Shanghai and from there, you’ll drive west to the nature reserves. Reaching Tangjiahe or Laohegou will take up most of a day but it’s definitely worth the journey. From tracking them in the wild to getting up-close-and-personal at a research center, we can plan a panda-focused trip for you based on your own taste. Likewise, we know children and teens love these precious animals, so we can also arrange a family-friendly journey that everyone will enjoy. The giant panda is China’s unofficial mascot and Sichuan, a province located almost directly in the middle of the country, has long been where these cherished animals have made their home. A number of breeding centers, reserves, and research facilities have been established in Sichuan to help protect the giant panda from extinction. These reserves offer the modern traveler plenty of extraordinary ways to visit pandas in their natural habitat. Here are some of our favorite ‘out of the ordinary’ ways to visit pandas in China: RELATED READING: Spice Up Your Life with Sichuan Travel Visit Pandas in China – Chengdu Panda Research Center The Chengdu Panda Breeding and Research Center is located within the city of Chengdu (the provincial capital) so it’s an easy reach for anyone who doesn’t have much time to spare. This center is focused on being educational and the keepers share a wealth of information with the visitors. You’ll learn about the vast quantity of bamboo a panda needs to consume each day and can even sample the biscuits that keepers designed specially to ensure the pandas get enough nutrients. A truly special treat (even better than trying the tasty biscuits) is that you may have a chance to see baby pandas here. Depending on the time of year, a number of cuddly babies will be being hand-reared by the keepers. In the Chengdu Breeding Center, you can be just a few meters away from some of the cutest baby animals on earth. If seeing baby pandas is high on your to-do list, ask your knowledgeable WildChina trip designer to suggest the best time of year to visit. RELATED READING: What to Do in Chengdu Visit Pandas in China – Dujiangyan Panda Reserve The Dujiangyan Panda Reserve is located 1.5 hours outside of Chengdu in the Qingcheng Mountains. The first panda sighting in Dujiangyan was in 1953 and since then, several wild pandas have been spotted in the area. The center was established with a primary goal of increasing the wild panda population – thus the grounds are designed to fit their natural habitat. In Dujiangyan, the keepers are training the pandas to survive and thrive in the wild. In Dujiangyan you’ll adventure through the bamboo-covered hills to seek out pandas and you can even volunteer for the day as a panda keeper. You’ll get to feed the pandas and clean out their enclosures. WildChina will also arrange for you to have lunch with the keepers, who’ll be happy to answer all your questions. This a great choice for families wanting to learn about this magnificent animal. RELATED READING: Best Places to See Pandas in Chengdu Visit Pandas in China – Tangjiahe Nature Reserve Tangjiahe Nature Reserve is located in the Sichuan basin and was established in 1978 to protect a diverse array of wildlife. Over 70 endangered​ species find a protected refuge in the reserve. WildChina can arrange an expert-led trek through the park where, again, you’ll learn how to track pandas. Along with the giant panda, this reserve is also home to golden snub-nosed monkeys and rare takin (a kind of ox). The local expert will explain how the reserve has taken huge steps to protect the giant panda and discuss the numerous scientific studies that take place in the park.​ Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, is about a 3-hour plane ride from either Beijing or Shanghai and from there, you’ll drive west to the nature reserves. Reaching Tangjiahe or Laohegou will take up most of a day but it’s definitely worth the journey. From tracking them in the wild to getting up-close-and-personal at a research center, we can plan a panda-focused trip for you based on your own taste. Likewise, we know children and teens love these precious animals, so we can also arrange a family-friendly journey that everyone will enjoy. The giant panda is China’s unofficial mascot and Sichuan, a province located almost directly in the middle of the country, has long been where these cherished animals have made their home. A number of breeding centers, reserves, and research facilities have been established in Sichuan to help protect the giant panda from extinction. These reserves offer the modern traveler plenty of extraordinary ways to visit pandas in their natural habitat. Here are some of our favorite ‘out of the ordinary’ ways to visit pandas in China: The giant panda is China’s unofficial mascot and Sichuan, a province located almost directly in the middle of the country, has long been where these cherished animals have made their home. A number of breeding centers, reserves, and research facilities have been established in Sichuan to help protect the giant panda from extinction. These reserves offer the modern traveler plenty of extraordinary ways to visit pandas in their natural habitat. Here are some of our favorite ‘out of the ordinary’ ways to visit pandas in China: RELATED READING: Spice Up Your Life with Sichuan Travel Visit Pandas in China – Chengdu Panda Research Center The Chengdu Panda Breeding and Research Center is located within the city of Chengdu (the provincial capital) so it’s an easy reach for anyone who doesn’t have much time to spare. This center is focused on being educational and the keepers share a wealth of information with the visitors. You’ll learn about the vast quantity of bamboo a panda needs to consume each day and can even sample the biscuits that keepers designed specially to ensure the pandas get enough nutrients. A truly special treat (even better than trying the tasty biscuits) is that you may have a chance to see baby pandas here. Depending on the time of year, a number of cuddly babies will be being hand-reared by the keepers. In the Chengdu Breeding Center, you can be just a few meters away from some of the cutest baby animals on earth. If seeing baby pandas is high on your to-do list, ask your knowledgeable WildChina trip designer to suggest the best time of year to visit. The Chengdu Panda Breeding and Research Center is located within the city of Chengdu (the provincial capital) so it’s an easy reach for anyone who doesn’t have much time to spare. This center is focused on being educational and the keepers share a wealth of information with the visitors. You’ll learn about the vast quantity of bamboo a panda needs to consume each day and can even sample the biscuits that keepers designed specially to ensure the pandas get enough nutrients. A truly special treat (even better than trying the tasty biscuits) is that you may have a chance to see baby pandas here. Depending on the time of year, a number of cuddly babies will be being hand-reared by the keepers. In the Chengdu Breeding Center, you can be just a few meters away from some of the cutest baby animals on earth. If seeing baby pandas is high on your to-do list, ask your knowledgeable WildChina trip designer to suggest the best time of year to visit. RELATED READING: What to Do in Chengdu Visit Pandas in China – Dujiangyan Panda Reserve The Dujiangyan Panda Reserve is located 1.5 hours outside of Chengdu in the Qingcheng Mountains. The first panda sighting in Dujiangyan was in 1953 and since then, several wild pandas have been spotted in the area. The center was established with a primary goal of increasing the wild panda population – thus the grounds are designed to fit their natural habitat. In Dujiangyan, the keepers are training the pandas to survive and thrive in the wild. In Dujiangyan you’ll adventure through the bamboo-covered hills to seek out pandas and you can even volunteer for the day as a panda keeper. You’ll get to feed the pandas and clean out their enclosures. WildChina will also arrange for you to have lunch with the keepers, who’ll be happy to answer all your questions. This a great choice for families wanting to learn about this magnificent animal. The Dujiangyan Panda Reserve is located 1.5 hours outside of Chengdu in the Qingcheng Mountains. The first panda sighting in Dujiangyan was in 1953 and since then, several wild pandas have been spotted in the area. The center was established with a primary goal of increasing the wild panda population – thus the grounds are designed to fit their natural habitat. In Dujiangyan, the keepers are training the pandas to survive and thrive in the wild. In Dujiangyan you’ll adventure through the bamboo-covered hills to seek out pandas and you can even volunteer for the day as a panda keeper. You’ll get to feed the pandas and clean out their enclosures. WildChina will also arrange for you to have lunch with the keepers, who’ll be happy to answer all your questions. This a great choice for families wanting to learn about this magnificent animal. RELATED READING: Best Places to See Pandas in Chengdu Visit Pandas in China – Tangjiahe Nature Reserve Tangjiahe Nature Reserve is located in the Sichuan basin and was established in 1978 to protect a diverse array of wildlife. Over 70 endangered​ species find a protected refuge in the reserve. WildChina can arrange an expert-led trek through the park where, again, you’ll learn how to track pandas. Along with the giant panda, this reserve is also home to golden snub-nosed monkeys and rare takin (a kind of ox). The local expert will explain how the reserve has taken huge steps to protect the giant panda and discuss the numerous scientific studies that take place in the park.​ Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, is about a 3-hour plane ride from either Beijing or Shanghai and from there, you’ll drive west to the nature reserves. Reaching Tangjiahe or Laohegou will take up most of a day but it’s definitely worth the journey. From tracking them in the wild to getting up-close-and-personal at a research center, we can plan a panda-focused trip for you based on your own taste. Likewise, we know children and teens love these precious animals, so we can also arrange a family-friendly journey that everyone will enjoy. RELATED READING: Best Places to See Pandas in Chengdu RELATED READING: Best Places to See Pandas in Chengdu Visit Pandas in China – Tangjiahe Nature Reserve Tangjiahe Nature Reserve is located in the Sichuan basin and was established in 1978 to protect a diverse array of wildlife. Over 70 endangered​ species find a protected refuge in the reserve. WildChina can arrange an expert-led trek through the park where, again, you’ll learn how to track pandas. Along with the giant panda, this reserve is also home to golden snub-nosed monkeys and rare takin (a kind of ox). The local expert will explain how the reserve has taken huge steps to protect the giant panda and discuss the numerous scientific studies that take place in the park.​ Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, is about a 3-hour plane ride from either Beijing or Shanghai and from there, you’ll drive west to the nature reserves. Reaching Tangjiahe or Laohegou will take up most of a day but it’s definitely worth the journey. From tracking them in the wild to getting up-close-and-personal at a research center, we can plan a panda-focused trip for you based on your own taste. Likewise, we know children and teens love these precious animals, so we can also arrange a family-friendly journey that everyone will enjoy. Visit Pandas in China – Tangjiahe Nature Reserve Tangjiahe Nature Reserve is located in the Sichuan basin and was established in 1978 to protect a diverse array of wildlife. Over 70 endangered​ species find a protected refuge in the reserve. WildChina can arrange an expert-led trek through the park where, again, you’ll learn how to track pandas. Along with the giant panda, this reserve is also home to golden snub-nosed monkeys and rare takin (a kind of ox). The local expert will explain how the reserve has taken huge steps to protect the giant panda and discuss the numerous scientific studies that take place in the park.​ Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, is about a 3-hour plane ride from either Beijing or Shanghai and from there, you’ll drive west to the nature reserves. Reaching Tangjiahe or Laohegou will take up most of a day but it’s definitely worth the journey. From tracking them in the wild to getting up-close-and-personal at a research center, we can plan a panda-focused trip for you based on your own taste. Likewise, we know children and teens love these precious animals, so we can also arrange a family-friendly journey that everyone will enjoy. Visit Pandas in China – Tangjiahe Nature Reserve Tangjiahe Nature Reserve is located in the Sichuan basin and was established in 1978 to protect a diverse array of wildlife. Over 70 endangered​ species find a protected refuge in the reserve. WildChina can arrange an expert-led trek through the park where, again, you’ll learn how to track pandas. Along with the giant panda, this reserve is also home to golden snub-nosed monkeys and rare takin (a kind of ox). The local expert will explain how the reserve has taken huge steps to protect the giant panda and discuss the numerous scientific studies that take place in the park.​ Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, is about a 3-hour plane ride from either Beijing or Shanghai and from there, you’ll drive west to the nature reserves. Reaching Tangjiahe or Laohegou will take up most of a day but it’s definitely worth the journey. From tracking them in the wild to getting up-close-and-personal at a research center, we can plan a panda-focused trip for you based on your own taste. Likewise, we know children and teens love these precious animals, so we can also arrange a family-friendly journey that everyone will enjoy. Tangjiahe Nature Reserve is located in the Sichuan basin and was established in 1978 to protect a diverse array of wildlife. Over 70 endangered​ species find a protected refuge in the reserve. WildChina can arrange an expert-led trek through the park where, again, you’ll learn how to track pandas. Along with the giant panda, this reserve is also home to golden snub-nosed monkeys and rare takin (a kind of ox). The local expert will explain how the reserve has taken huge steps to protect the giant panda and discuss the numerous scientific studies that take place in the park.​ Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, is about a 3-hour plane ride from either Beijing or Shanghai and from there, you’ll drive west to the nature reserves. Reaching Tangjiahe or Laohegou will take up most of a day but it’s definitely worth the journey. From tracking them in the wild to getting up-close-and-personal at a research center, we can plan a panda-focused trip for you based on your own taste. Likewise, we know children and teens love these precious animals, so we can also arrange a family-friendly journey that everyone will enjoy.