ID: 498b4511c1db874b
Title: Where to Eat in Beijing | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2023/08/where-to-eat-in-beijing/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2023-08-07T22:41:53+08:00
Tags: Beijing, Foodie Finds, WildChina, Insider Tips, Restaurant Guides
================================================================================

As the crowned office foodie, we couldn’t think of anyone better than Jenny Zhao to share her personal list of where to eat in Beijing, everything from Michelin-star restaurants to local’s-only hole-in-the-walls. A true food enthusiast, WildChina Leisure Department Manager Jenny Zhao has lived in Beijing for near on two decades, and has taste tested her way through a fair share of the city’s eateries during that time. For those of us who have shared a desk with her in WildChina’s Beijing office, a “let’s get lunch” from Jenny can mean anything from her hometown reganmian (Wuhan hot dry noodles) to the funky fusion peking duck pizza (a well-known Jenny Zhao favorite). Here’s her round up of the best places to eat in Beijing – enjoy! Best Gourmet Restaurant in BeijingKing’s Joy – 京兆尹 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in BeijingSi Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Best Hole in the Wall in BeijingLiqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 The Trendy Restaurant in BeijingHaidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in BeijingWildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall Best Gourmet Restaurant in Beijing King’s Joy – 京兆尹 King’s Joy, Beijing (photo courtesy of King’s Joy) Discover an extraordinary culinary gem, a vegetarian restaurant with two Michelin stars. Nestled in the heart of Beijing just moments away from the Lama Temple, King’s Joy restaurant offers a harmonious blend of tradition and modernity. Remodeled from a Beijing-style courtyard house, the restaurant boasts a glass-roofed dining room that bathes the space in natural light, creating an enchanting dining experience. Delight in the flavors of Chinese vegetarian cuisine, where every dish is prepared using locally sourced organic ingredients. With a menu that changes every 15 days, the restaurant exclusively offers a set-menu, a true culinary masterpiece that reflects the flavors of each season. Due to its popularity, it is advisable to make a reservation at least two weeks in advance to secure your table and savor this enchanting and romantic setting. Jenny’s favorite dish: Whatever is on the menu for the day! With an ever rotating menu, you have to trust in the chef (all the dishes are good though, trust me)! Price: $$$ Location: 2 Wudaoying Hutong 五道营胡同2号 Phone: +86 1084049191 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Stir Fried 3A Wagyu with Scallion (photo courtesy of Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant) Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Price: $$ Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 As the crowned office foodie, we couldn’t think of anyone better than Jenny Zhao to share her personal list of where to eat in Beijing, everything from Michelin-star restaurants to local’s-only hole-in-the-walls. A true food enthusiast, WildChina Leisure Department Manager Jenny Zhao has lived in Beijing for near on two decades, and has taste tested her way through a fair share of the city’s eateries during that time. For those of us who have shared a desk with her in WildChina’s Beijing office, a “let’s get lunch” from Jenny can mean anything from her hometown reganmian (Wuhan hot dry noodles) to the funky fusion peking duck pizza (a well-known Jenny Zhao favorite). Here’s her round up of the best places to eat in Beijing – enjoy! Best Gourmet Restaurant in BeijingKing’s Joy – 京兆尹 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in BeijingSi Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Best Hole in the Wall in BeijingLiqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 The Trendy Restaurant in BeijingHaidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in BeijingWildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall Best Gourmet Restaurant in Beijing King’s Joy – 京兆尹 King’s Joy, Beijing (photo courtesy of King’s Joy) Discover an extraordinary culinary gem, a vegetarian restaurant with two Michelin stars. Nestled in the heart of Beijing just moments away from the Lama Temple, King’s Joy restaurant offers a harmonious blend of tradition and modernity. Remodeled from a Beijing-style courtyard house, the restaurant boasts a glass-roofed dining room that bathes the space in natural light, creating an enchanting dining experience. Delight in the flavors of Chinese vegetarian cuisine, where every dish is prepared using locally sourced organic ingredients. With a menu that changes every 15 days, the restaurant exclusively offers a set-menu, a true culinary masterpiece that reflects the flavors of each season. Due to its popularity, it is advisable to make a reservation at least two weeks in advance to secure your table and savor this enchanting and romantic setting. Jenny’s favorite dish: Whatever is on the menu for the day! With an ever rotating menu, you have to trust in the chef (all the dishes are good though, trust me)! Price: $$$ Location: 2 Wudaoying Hutong 五道营胡同2号 Phone: +86 1084049191 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Stir Fried 3A Wagyu with Scallion (photo courtesy of Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant) Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Price: $$ Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 As the crowned office foodie, we couldn’t think of anyone better than Jenny Zhao to share her personal list of where to eat in Beijing, everything from Michelin-star restaurants to local’s-only hole-in-the-walls. A true food enthusiast, WildChina Leisure Department Manager Jenny Zhao has lived in Beijing for near on two decades, and has taste tested her way through a fair share of the city’s eateries during that time. For those of us who have shared a desk with her in WildChina’s Beijing office, a “let’s get lunch” from Jenny can mean anything from her hometown reganmian (Wuhan hot dry noodles) to the funky fusion peking duck pizza (a well-known Jenny Zhao favorite). Here’s her round up of the best places to eat in Beijing – enjoy! Best Gourmet Restaurant in BeijingKing’s Joy – 京兆尹 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in BeijingSi Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Best Hole in the Wall in BeijingLiqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 The Trendy Restaurant in BeijingHaidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in BeijingWildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall Best Gourmet Restaurant in BeijingKing’s Joy – 京兆尹 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in BeijingSi Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Best Hole in the Wall in BeijingLiqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 The Trendy Restaurant in BeijingHaidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in BeijingWildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall Best Gourmet Restaurant in BeijingKing’s Joy – 京兆尹 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in BeijingSi Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Best Hole in the Wall in BeijingLiqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 The Trendy Restaurant in BeijingHaidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in BeijingWildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall • Best Gourmet Restaurant in BeijingKing’s Joy – 京兆尹 • King’s Joy – 京兆尹 • The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in BeijingSi Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 • Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 • Best Hole in the Wall in BeijingLiqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 • Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 • The Trendy Restaurant in BeijingHaidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 • Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 • Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in BeijingWildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall • WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall Best Gourmet Restaurant in Beijing King’s Joy – 京兆尹 King’s Joy, Beijing (photo courtesy of King’s Joy) Discover an extraordinary culinary gem, a vegetarian restaurant with two Michelin stars. Nestled in the heart of Beijing just moments away from the Lama Temple, King’s Joy restaurant offers a harmonious blend of tradition and modernity. Remodeled from a Beijing-style courtyard house, the restaurant boasts a glass-roofed dining room that bathes the space in natural light, creating an enchanting dining experience. Delight in the flavors of Chinese vegetarian cuisine, where every dish is prepared using locally sourced organic ingredients. With a menu that changes every 15 days, the restaurant exclusively offers a set-menu, a true culinary masterpiece that reflects the flavors of each season. Due to its popularity, it is advisable to make a reservation at least two weeks in advance to secure your table and savor this enchanting and romantic setting. Jenny’s favorite dish: Whatever is on the menu for the day! With an ever rotating menu, you have to trust in the chef (all the dishes are good though, trust me)! Price: $$$ Location: 2 Wudaoying Hutong 五道营胡同2号 Phone: +86 1084049191 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Stir Fried 3A Wagyu with Scallion (photo courtesy of Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant) Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Price: $$ Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Beijing King’s Joy – 京兆尹 King’s Joy, Beijing (photo courtesy of King’s Joy) Discover an extraordinary culinary gem, a vegetarian restaurant with two Michelin stars. Nestled in the heart of Beijing just moments away from the Lama Temple, King’s Joy restaurant offers a harmonious blend of tradition and modernity. Remodeled from a Beijing-style courtyard house, the restaurant boasts a glass-roofed dining room that bathes the space in natural light, creating an enchanting dining experience. Delight in the flavors of Chinese vegetarian cuisine, where every dish is prepared using locally sourced organic ingredients. With a menu that changes every 15 days, the restaurant exclusively offers a set-menu, a true culinary masterpiece that reflects the flavors of each season. Due to its popularity, it is advisable to make a reservation at least two weeks in advance to secure your table and savor this enchanting and romantic setting. Jenny’s favorite dish: Whatever is on the menu for the day! With an ever rotating menu, you have to trust in the chef (all the dishes are good though, trust me)! Price: $$$ Location: 2 Wudaoying Hutong 五道营胡同2号 Phone: +86 1084049191 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Stir Fried 3A Wagyu with Scallion (photo courtesy of Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant) Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Price: $$ Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Beijing Discover an extraordinary culinary gem, a vegetarian restaurant with two Michelin stars. Nestled in the heart of Beijing just moments away from the Lama Temple, King’s Joy restaurant offers a harmonious blend of tradition and modernity. Remodeled from a Beijing-style courtyard house, the restaurant boasts a glass-roofed dining room that bathes the space in natural light, creating an enchanting dining experience. Delight in the flavors of Chinese vegetarian cuisine, where every dish is prepared using locally sourced organic ingredients. With a menu that changes every 15 days, the restaurant exclusively offers a set-menu, a true culinary masterpiece that reflects the flavors of each season. Due to its popularity, it is advisable to make a reservation at least two weeks in advance to secure your table and savor this enchanting and romantic setting. Jenny’s favorite dish: Whatever is on the menu for the day! With an ever rotating menu, you have to trust in the chef (all the dishes are good though, trust me)! Location: 2 Wudaoying Hutong 五道营胡同2号 Location: 2 Wudaoying Hutong 五道营胡同2号 Location: 2 Wudaoying Hutong 五道营胡同2号 Location: 2 Wudaoying Hutong 五道营胡同2号 Phone: +86 1084049191 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Stir Fried 3A Wagyu with Scallion (photo courtesy of Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant) Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Price: $$ Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Stir Fried 3A Wagyu with Scallion (photo courtesy of Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant) Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Price: $$ Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Stir Fried 3A Wagyu with Scallion (photo courtesy of Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant) Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Price: $$ The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Stir Fried 3A Wagyu with Scallion (photo courtesy of Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant) Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Price: $$ The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Beijing Si Ji Min Fu Restaurant – 四季民福 Si Ji Min Fu, a typical Beijing restaurant, where the air is filled with the enticing aromas of the local gastronomy, is a perfect place for experiencing the authentic flavors of Beijing cuisine. Renowned for its array of Beijing-style dishes, this place is a true local hotspot, attracting Beijingers who have long regarded it as the go-to destination for their Peking Duck fix, lured by its irresistible taste and perfectly crispy skin. Prepare yourself for a lively and vibrant atmosphere, where the sounds of laughter and conversations create a convivial dining experience. As a beloved establishment among the locals, securing a seat can be a challenge since reservations are not accepted, so head over before your stomach starts rumbling and prepare to rub shoulders with locals queuing up for a table. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭 and Capital City Crispy Fried Pork Soup 京城酥肉锅 Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Location: 1/F, Donghua Restaurant, No.32 Dengshikou West Street, Dongcheng District 灯市口西街32号东华饭店1楼 Phone: +86 1065135141 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 A chef expertly carving Peking Duck Best Hole in the Wall in Beijing Liqun Peking Duck Restaurant – 利群烤鸭店 This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Price: $$ Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 This establishment is one of a few Peking Duck restaurants in Beijing where the time-honored tradition of roasting duck with fruit wood is upheld. Here the focus is on delivering exceptional flavors rather than fancy presentation. The service has no-frills no-BS attitude and the crowded and noisy atmosphere of the historic hutong kitchen only adds to the authenticity of the experience. Despite being a local dive, the restaurant does take reservations (highly recommended if you want to guarantee a seat). Jenny’s favorite dishes: Peking Duck 北京烤鸭, Fried Crispy Eggplant 烧茄子 and Mustard Duck Palm 芥末鸭掌 Location: No. 11 North Fengxiang Hutong, Dongcheng District 北凤翔胡同11号 Phone: +86 1067025681 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao Smart Restaurant (photo courtesy of Haidilao Restaurant) Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 The Trendy Restaurant in Beijing Haidilao Smart Restaurant – 海底捞智慧餐厅 Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Price: $$ Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Haidilao’s flagship smart restaurant offers hot pot like never before, seamlessly integrating cutting-edge AI technology into the dining experience itself. The flagship restaurant in Beijing immerses guests in a futuristic ambiance. Robots glide through the space, delivering dishes directly to tables with precision and efficiency. The intelligent kitchen, driven by AI systems, upholds the highest standards of quality and hygiene. From creating personalized hot pot broths via the Haidilao app to witnessing the captivating spectacle of noodle-making by skilled chefs, every aspect of the dining experience is unconventional and meant to leave a lasting impression. In addition to the technological marvels, Haidilao pampers its guests with unexpected delights, offering complimentary manicures and massages while you wait for your table. Haidilao sets a new standard, pushing the boundaries of culinary innovation and creating a dining destination that is truly one-of-a-kind. To secure a spot, we highly recommend making a reservation at least three days in advance. Jenny’s favorite dishes: Signature Shrimp Mash 招牌虾滑, Haidilao Juicy Beef Balls 捞派麻辣滑牛肉 and Tomato Soup Pot 番茄汤锅 Location: No. 4, B1 Floor, Zhongjun World City, 8-9 Jinhui Road, Chaoyang District 朝阳区金汇路8-9号楼中骏世界城负一层B1-04号 Phone: +86 1065018449 Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall A 2023 WildChina Great Wall dining set up Our WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Beijing WildChina Pop-Up Dining Experience on The Great Wall This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602 This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Price: $$$$ Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 This WildChina exclusive opportunity takes place in a secluded and secret section of the Great Wall, far from the crowds. After conquering the monumental challenge of climbing the Great Wall, there’s no better way to celebrate than with a well-deserved toast. Picture yourself enjoying a Michelin-chef catered meal, accompanied by the crisp bubbles of chilled Champagne, all against the backdrop of breathtaking panoramic views from one of the world’s most iconic landmarks. Raise your glass and toast the moment with a resounding “ganbei!” Our tip: work with us to set this up as a surprise for your travel companion. There’s nothing like rounding the last bend on the wall to find a surprise set-up like this waiting for you! Location: Hidden section of the Great Wall of China 地址请详询碧山旅行 Phone: +86 1064656602