ID: 1233193b4c1b7184
Title: Episode 3: Shangri-La, Yunnan | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2021/05/episode-3-shangri-la-yunnan/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2021-05-06T03:02:00+08:00
Tags: Yunnan, Shangri-La, Traveling Tips, Tacheng, Songtsam Hotels, Ancient Tea and Horse, Podcast
================================================================================

A little about the destination… For our third episode, we travel to Shangri-La and the surrounding regions, in Yunnan province. Home to Tibetan culture, lamaseries, national parks, Snub-Nosed Monkeys, and the great Salween, Yangtze, and Mekong rivers. Known as Gyalthang in Tibetan, the city of Zhongdian, was officially rechristened ‘Shangri-La‘ after the mythical paradise described in James Hilton’s Lost Horizon. Located on a broad valley on the Tibetan Plateau at an altitude of 3,200 meters (10,500 feet), surrounded by snow-capped peaks, primeval forests, and lakes, the town was a gateway to the historic Tibetan province of Kham and an important station for trade caravans along the Ancient Tea and Horse Caravan Trail. Today, it remains an important center for Yunnan’s Tibetan community. A little outside Shangri-La is the village of Tacheng. A day in Tacheng is a day lived simply. The first rays of sunlight come over the horizon wrapped in a wispy fog that hugs the town and lingers over early risers. Huddled at the bottom of its fertile valley, smoke from Tacheng’s chimneys will rise with you as you venture into the hills or wander through the fields. After exploring such a small community, one tucked into an idyllic, remote landscape, you’ll be forgiven for wondering if this might be the Shangri-La most travelers look for down the road. 00:45 – Where is Shangri-La and what is its history 04:14 – What is Shangri-La’s travel draw 08:40 – How to get to Shangri-La and the surrounding areas 13:06 – The story of the Songtsam hotels 17:37 – What food to try in Shangri-La 21:20 – Mei’s top local tips You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 Sunrise view of the Meili Snow Mountain by Andres Vargas Places, resources and tips mentioned in the podcast: You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on:How to get there (suggested route) Where to stay What foods to tryTop local hikesShangri-La journeys How to get there (suggested route) Fly to Lijiang (7,874ft/2,400m) – more flights to Lijiang than to Shangri-La, and lower elevation to start Drive to Tacheng (9,843ft/3,000m) – 4-5hr drive from Lijiang depending on road conditions Drive to Shangri-La (10,367ft/3,160m) – 2-3hr drive from Tacheng depending on road conditions Fly out of Shangri-La (airport is called “Diqing”) Where to stay Lijiang – Aamandayan (Luxury boutique recommendation) or The Bivou (local boutique recommendation) Tacheng – local boutiques Songtsam Lodge Tacheng or Habuda Yungu Hotel Shangri-La – Songtsam Linka Shangri-La What foods to try Yak butter tea Sampa (barley flour dough) Momo (dumplings) Matsutake mushrooms (harvested locally) Cordyceps (虫草) Tibetan snow tea (雪茶) Yak jerky Top local hikes White Horse Snow Mountain (白马雪山) Yubeng village (雨崩村) Tracing the steps of the Catholic missionaries from Gongshan’s Salween River side (贡山) to Cizhong Catholic Tibetan village (茨中) Shangri-La journeys Dreaming of Shangri-La: Yunnan’s Tibetan Valleys Fabled Shangri-La A little about the destination… For our third episode, we travel to Shangri-La and the surrounding regions, in Yunnan province. Home to Tibetan culture, lamaseries, national parks, Snub-Nosed Monkeys, and the great Salween, Yangtze, and Mekong rivers. Known as Gyalthang in Tibetan, the city of Zhongdian, was officially rechristened ‘Shangri-La‘ after the mythical paradise described in James Hilton’s Lost Horizon. Located on a broad valley on the Tibetan Plateau at an altitude of 3,200 meters (10,500 feet), surrounded by snow-capped peaks, primeval forests, and lakes, the town was a gateway to the historic Tibetan province of Kham and an important station for trade caravans along the Ancient Tea and Horse Caravan Trail. Today, it remains an important center for Yunnan’s Tibetan community. A little outside Shangri-La is the village of Tacheng. A day in Tacheng is a day lived simply. The first rays of sunlight come over the horizon wrapped in a wispy fog that hugs the town and lingers over early risers. Huddled at the bottom of its fertile valley, smoke from Tacheng’s chimneys will rise with you as you venture into the hills or wander through the fields. After exploring such a small community, one tucked into an idyllic, remote landscape, you’ll be forgiven for wondering if this might be the Shangri-La most travelers look for down the road. 00:45 – Where is Shangri-La and what is its history 04:14 – What is Shangri-La’s travel draw 08:40 – How to get to Shangri-La and the surrounding areas 13:06 – The story of the Songtsam hotels 17:37 – What food to try in Shangri-La 21:20 – Mei’s top local tips You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 Sunrise view of the Meili Snow Mountain by Andres Vargas Places, resources and tips mentioned in the podcast: You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on:How to get there (suggested route) Where to stay What foods to tryTop local hikesShangri-La journeys How to get there (suggested route) Fly to Lijiang (7,874ft/2,400m) – more flights to Lijiang than to Shangri-La, and lower elevation to start Drive to Tacheng (9,843ft/3,000m) – 4-5hr drive from Lijiang depending on road conditions Drive to Shangri-La (10,367ft/3,160m) – 2-3hr drive from Tacheng depending on road conditions Fly out of Shangri-La (airport is called “Diqing”) Where to stay Lijiang – Aamandayan (Luxury boutique recommendation) or The Bivou (local boutique recommendation) Tacheng – local boutiques Songtsam Lodge Tacheng or Habuda Yungu Hotel Shangri-La – Songtsam Linka Shangri-La What foods to try Yak butter tea Sampa (barley flour dough) Momo (dumplings) Matsutake mushrooms (harvested locally) Cordyceps (虫草) Tibetan snow tea (雪茶) Yak jerky Top local hikes White Horse Snow Mountain (白马雪山) Yubeng village (雨崩村) Tracing the steps of the Catholic missionaries from Gongshan’s Salween River side (贡山) to Cizhong Catholic Tibetan village (茨中) Shangri-La journeys Dreaming of Shangri-La: Yunnan’s Tibetan Valleys Fabled Shangri-La A little about the destination… For our third episode, we travel to Shangri-La and the surrounding regions, in Yunnan province. Home to Tibetan culture, lamaseries, national parks, Snub-Nosed Monkeys, and the great Salween, Yangtze, and Mekong rivers. Known as Gyalthang in Tibetan, the city of Zhongdian, was officially rechristened ‘Shangri-La‘ after the mythical paradise described in James Hilton’s Lost Horizon. Located on a broad valley on the Tibetan Plateau at an altitude of 3,200 meters (10,500 feet), surrounded by snow-capped peaks, primeval forests, and lakes, the town was a gateway to the historic Tibetan province of Kham and an important station for trade caravans along the Ancient Tea and Horse Caravan Trail. Today, it remains an important center for Yunnan’s Tibetan community. A little outside Shangri-La is the village of Tacheng. A day in Tacheng is a day lived simply. The first rays of sunlight come over the horizon wrapped in a wispy fog that hugs the town and lingers over early risers. Huddled at the bottom of its fertile valley, smoke from Tacheng’s chimneys will rise with you as you venture into the hills or wander through the fields. After exploring such a small community, one tucked into an idyllic, remote landscape, you’ll be forgiven for wondering if this might be the Shangri-La most travelers look for down the road. • 00:45 – Where is Shangri-La and what is its history • 04:14 – What is Shangri-La’s travel draw • 08:40 – How to get to Shangri-La and the surrounding areas • 13:06 – The story of the Songtsam hotels • 17:37 – What food to try in Shangri-La • 21:20 – Mei’s top local tips You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on: Spotify Audible Apple Amazon 喜马拉雅 小宇宙 Places, resources and tips mentioned in the podcast: You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on:How to get there (suggested route) Where to stay What foods to tryTop local hikesShangri-La journeys Places, resources and tips mentioned in the podcast: Places, resources and tips mentioned in the podcast: Places, resources and tips mentioned in the podcast: You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on:How to get there (suggested route) Where to stay What foods to tryTop local hikesShangri-La journeys You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on:How to get there (suggested route) Where to stay What foods to tryTop local hikesShangri-La journeys • You can also listen to The China Travel Podcast Episode 3 on: • How to get there (suggested route) • Where to stay • What foods to try • Top local hikes • Shangri-La journeys How to get there (suggested route) • Fly to Lijiang (7,874ft/2,400m) – more flights to Lijiang than to Shangri-La, and lower elevation to start • Drive to Tacheng (9,843ft/3,000m) – 4-5hr drive from Lijiang depending on road conditions • Drive to Shangri-La (10,367ft/3,160m) – 2-3hr drive from Tacheng depending on road conditions • Fly out of Shangri-La (airport is called “Diqing”) • Lijiang – Aamandayan (Luxury boutique recommendation) or The Bivou (local boutique recommendation) • Tacheng – local boutiques Songtsam Lodge Tacheng or Habuda Yungu Hotel • Shangri-La – Songtsam Linka Shangri-La • Yak butter tea • Sampa (barley flour dough) • Momo (dumplings) • Matsutake mushrooms (harvested locally) • Cordyceps (虫草) • Tibetan snow tea (雪茶) • Yak jerky • White Horse Snow Mountain (白马雪山) • Yubeng village (雨崩村) • Tracing the steps of the Catholic missionaries from Gongshan’s Salween River side (贡山) to Cizhong Catholic Tibetan village (茨中) • Dreaming of Shangri-La: Yunnan’s Tibetan Valleys • Fabled Shangri-La