ID: 744a6b4f094d238e
Title: 6 Tips For Traveling With Kids In Asia | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2011/04/6-tips-for-traveling-with-kids-in-asia/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2011-04-13T10:41:08+08:00
Tags: WildChina, WildChina Travel, WildChina Travel Tips, Family, wild China
================================================================================

One of the perks of my job is traveling with my kids. Over the years, I’ve saved up a few tips to share. 1. Slow down the Pace and allow kids (and yourself) down time. We tend to feel pressured to pack too many things into one day’s travel plan. The pressure is well justified as we are often talking about thousands of dollars of plane rides for the family, so get as much as you can. But, in the end, kids get grumpy, parents are exhausted. To me, that’s a lose/lose situation. So, I often plan just one major outing for each day, and have the rest of the time for hanging out. Take Cambodia as an example, the temples can get repetitive really quickly. So, I made a deal with the kids, one temple a day! That plus the time they spent watching monkeys in the temple grounds would usually take us to noon, then, we grab a nice lunch in one of the road side restaurant, back to hotel for the baby to nap, the older kids for an afternoon movie, while I get a massage. Then it’s pool time, followed by excursions for dinner and ice cream in local markets. 2. Stay put in a place at least 2-3 nights before moving. city hopping was driven by the same pressure. I got to see everything! . Wrong. it burns out the kids and you. Stay at a place a little longer so they develop a sense of routine, which calms them down. 3. Try to take 1 or 2 kids on a special “date” trip with mommy or daddy. We often travel as a whole family entourage for chrismas and spring break, but through out the year, I try to take the kids on separate trips to match their time and interests. The younger ones could afford missing preschool for long stretches at a time. So, I took them to China with me for 6 weeks, slow pace of travel worked great. We covering Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Cambodia. Then I didn’t want the older child to feel left out, took just him on a cruise to patagonia as observing animals/hiking in nature was his love, while if we had the little ones, we wouldn’t have been able to do as much. 4. Choose a hotel or cruise that’s kids friendly and also with family clientele. A lodge or cruise sounds great, until you discover that your kid might be the only child among large groups of baby boomers. That puts too much pressure on the parents to constantly provide entertainment. It’s best, when on a cruise, your child finds a pal to play cards, chess or watch movie with. 5. Whenever it’s affordable, take a guide, sometimes they can double as sitter. I’ve found this often possible on my travels. Most guides in China, Cambodia are so eager to help that they are willing to spend time to help out with the kids. I had 3 kids with me at the Great Wall, the oldest one ran fast, while the baby was still in my arms. So the guide willingly took the hand of the middle child and helped her up and down those steep stairs. Same thing as in Cambodia, I hired a guide for the day, but was done with touring by lunch time, so the guide happily played games with the child back at the hotel. It’s often fun to see the kids learning different games from different cultures. 6. Favor houses and villas over hotel, favor places with a pool. I always needed a microwave to heat up milk at 6 am. Some times kids want to climb into my bed. Hotels just don’t work as well with 3 kids. Houses always! Pool is always a lifesaver! ———- More tips on family travel can also be viewed on The Perrin Post, a blog by Condé Nast Travler director Wendy Perrin. One of the perks of my job is traveling with my kids. Over the years, I’ve saved up a few tips to share. 1. Slow down the Pace and allow kids (and yourself) down time. We tend to feel pressured to pack too many things into one day’s travel plan. The pressure is well justified as we are often talking about thousands of dollars of plane rides for the family, so get as much as you can. But, in the end, kids get grumpy, parents are exhausted. To me, that’s a lose/lose situation. So, I often plan just one major outing for each day, and have the rest of the time for hanging out. Take Cambodia as an example, the temples can get repetitive really quickly. So, I made a deal with the kids, one temple a day! That plus the time they spent watching monkeys in the temple grounds would usually take us to noon, then, we grab a nice lunch in one of the road side restaurant, back to hotel for the baby to nap, the older kids for an afternoon movie, while I get a massage. Then it’s pool time, followed by excursions for dinner and ice cream in local markets. 2. Stay put in a place at least 2-3 nights before moving. city hopping was driven by the same pressure. I got to see everything! . Wrong. it burns out the kids and you. Stay at a place a little longer so they develop a sense of routine, which calms them down. 3. Try to take 1 or 2 kids on a special “date” trip with mommy or daddy. We often travel as a whole family entourage for chrismas and spring break, but through out the year, I try to take the kids on separate trips to match their time and interests. The younger ones could afford missing preschool for long stretches at a time. So, I took them to China with me for 6 weeks, slow pace of travel worked great. We covering Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Cambodia. Then I didn’t want the older child to feel left out, took just him on a cruise to patagonia as observing animals/hiking in nature was his love, while if we had the little ones, we wouldn’t have been able to do as much. 4. Choose a hotel or cruise that’s kids friendly and also with family clientele. A lodge or cruise sounds great, until you discover that your kid might be the only child among large groups of baby boomers. That puts too much pressure on the parents to constantly provide entertainment. It’s best, when on a cruise, your child finds a pal to play cards, chess or watch movie with. 5. Whenever it’s affordable, take a guide, sometimes they can double as sitter. I’ve found this often possible on my travels. Most guides in China, Cambodia are so eager to help that they are willing to spend time to help out with the kids. I had 3 kids with me at the Great Wall, the oldest one ran fast, while the baby was still in my arms. So the guide willingly took the hand of the middle child and helped her up and down those steep stairs. Same thing as in Cambodia, I hired a guide for the day, but was done with touring by lunch time, so the guide happily played games with the child back at the hotel. It’s often fun to see the kids learning different games from different cultures. 6. Favor houses and villas over hotel, favor places with a pool. I always needed a microwave to heat up milk at 6 am. Some times kids want to climb into my bed. Hotels just don’t work as well with 3 kids. Houses always! Pool is always a lifesaver! ———- More tips on family travel can also be viewed on The Perrin Post, a blog by Condé Nast Travler director Wendy Perrin. One of the perks of my job is traveling with my kids. Over the years, I’ve saved up a few tips to share. 1. Slow down the Pace and allow kids (and yourself) down time. We tend to feel pressured to pack too many things into one day’s travel plan. The pressure is well justified as we are often talking about thousands of dollars of plane rides for the family, so get as much as you can. But, in the end, kids get grumpy, parents are exhausted. To me, that’s a lose/lose situation. So, I often plan just one major outing for each day, and have the rest of the time for hanging out. Take Cambodia as an example, the temples can get repetitive really quickly. So, I made a deal with the kids, one temple a day! That plus the time they spent watching monkeys in the temple grounds would usually take us to noon, then, we grab a nice lunch in one of the road side restaurant, back to hotel for the baby to nap, the older kids for an afternoon movie, while I get a massage. Then it’s pool time, followed by excursions for dinner and ice cream in local markets. 2. Stay put in a place at least 2-3 nights before moving. city hopping was driven by the same pressure. I got to see everything! . Wrong. it burns out the kids and you. Stay at a place a little longer so they develop a sense of routine, which calms them down. 3. Try to take 1 or 2 kids on a special “date” trip with mommy or daddy. We often travel as a whole family entourage for chrismas and spring break, but through out the year, I try to take the kids on separate trips to match their time and interests. The younger ones could afford missing preschool for long stretches at a time. So, I took them to China with me for 6 weeks, slow pace of travel worked great. We covering Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Cambodia. Then I didn’t want the older child to feel left out, took just him on a cruise to patagonia as observing animals/hiking in nature was his love, while if we had the little ones, we wouldn’t have been able to do as much. 4. Choose a hotel or cruise that’s kids friendly and also with family clientele. A lodge or cruise sounds great, until you discover that your kid might be the only child among large groups of baby boomers. That puts too much pressure on the parents to constantly provide entertainment. It’s best, when on a cruise, your child finds a pal to play cards, chess or watch movie with. 5. Whenever it’s affordable, take a guide, sometimes they can double as sitter. I’ve found this often possible on my travels. Most guides in China, Cambodia are so eager to help that they are willing to spend time to help out with the kids. I had 3 kids with me at the Great Wall, the oldest one ran fast, while the baby was still in my arms. So the guide willingly took the hand of the middle child and helped her up and down those steep stairs. Same thing as in Cambodia, I hired a guide for the day, but was done with touring by lunch time, so the guide happily played games with the child back at the hotel. It’s often fun to see the kids learning different games from different cultures. 6. Favor houses and villas over hotel, favor places with a pool. I always needed a microwave to heat up milk at 6 am. Some times kids want to climb into my bed. Hotels just don’t work as well with 3 kids. Houses always! Pool is always a lifesaver! More tips on family travel can also be viewed on The Perrin Post, a blog by Condé Nast Travler director Wendy Perrin.