ID: 562e9e2232a3d67f
Title: Where to Eat in Hong Kong | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2023/08/where-to-eat-in-hong-kong/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2023-08-08T21:13:55+08:00
Tags: Food, Chinese Cuisine, WildChina, Hong Kong, Foodie Finds, Insider Tips, Hong Kong and Macau, Restaurant Guides
================================================================================

Hong Kong is a foodie paradise where dreams of pineapple buns, Hong Kong milk tea, dim sum and char shiu (barbecue pork) are sure to follow. The question in Hong Kong is never what to eat, but where. There are endless choices of where to eat in Hong Kong – member’s only clubs, concealed dim sum dives, and street-side milk tea stands below multi-Michelin star restaurants. Phoebe Yang, WildChina travel designer and Cantonese food-lover, has curated a list of her favorite restaurants in Hong Kong to get you started. However, the below five restaurants are only the tip of the iceberg in Hong Kong, so we encourage you to eat beyond (basically, just eat everything in Hong Kong). Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court – 唐閣 Baked Seafood Rice with Cream Sauce in Crab Shell (photo courtesy of T’ang Court) T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Price: $$$$ Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Phone: +852 21327898 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Yung Kee Restaurant interior (photo courtesy of Yung Kee Restaurant) Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Price: $$$$ Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Phone: +852 25221624 Best Hole in the Wall in Hong Kong Tsim Chai Kee – 沾仔記 Tsim Chai Kee dish (photo courtesy of Tsim Chai Kee) Having the honor of a Michelin Bib Gourmand for several consecutive years, this restaurant has garnered a devoted following for a good reason. The queue during lunchtime speaks volumes about the quality of their noodles, which come with a choice of three toppings – springy dace balls, generously-filled pork and shrimp wontons and tender sliced beef with a robust meaty flavor. For adventurous eaters, you can even combine two or all three toppings for an enhanced dining experience. Just be prepared to share a table with friendly strangers during busy hours, or visit during off-peak times to savor the flavors without the crowd. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Noodle Soup with Three Kinds of Toppings: King Prawn Wonton (the most famous), Sliced Beef and Fish Balls 招牌云吞面 Price: $ Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32 – 卅二公館 Dining area at Mott 32 (photo courtesy of Mott 32) Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Price: $$$$ Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Phone: +852 28858688 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Hong Kong Aqua The view from Aqua dining area (photo courtesy of Aqua) Aqua offers a distinctive and unforgettable dining experience with its chic interiors and stunning views of Hong Kong’s vibrant harbor and cityscape. Located on the 17th floor of the stylish H Zentre building, the restaurant exudes an intimate and romantic ambiance, perfect for special celebrations and occasions. Offering Italian and Japanese cuisines, the restaurant’s diverse menu delights with dishes like king crab salad, black truffle tagliolini, and lobster pizza. The restaurant also boasts a rooftop bar with a live DJ and breathtaking Hong Kong vistas, making it a perfect spot for enjoying a drink after dinner. To secure a spot at this sought-after destination, it’s advisable to make reservations at least three months in advance. That being said, the restaurant’s rooftop bar is open without reservation. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signature Tataki Platter 招牌刺身拼盘, Lobster Pizza with Lobster Bisque and Thinly Sliced Lobster & Lemon Zest 龙虾披萨配龙虾浓汤和柠檬碎龙虾薄片 Price: $$$$ Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Phone: +852 34272288 Hong Kong is a foodie paradise where dreams of pineapple buns, Hong Kong milk tea, dim sum and char shiu (barbecue pork) are sure to follow. The question in Hong Kong is never what to eat, but where. There are endless choices of where to eat in Hong Kong – member’s only clubs, concealed dim sum dives, and street-side milk tea stands below multi-Michelin star restaurants. Phoebe Yang, WildChina travel designer and Cantonese food-lover, has curated a list of her favorite restaurants in Hong Kong to get you started. However, the below five restaurants are only the tip of the iceberg in Hong Kong, so we encourage you to eat beyond (basically, just eat everything in Hong Kong). Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court – 唐閣 Baked Seafood Rice with Cream Sauce in Crab Shell (photo courtesy of T’ang Court) T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Price: $$$$ Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Phone: +852 21327898 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Yung Kee Restaurant interior (photo courtesy of Yung Kee Restaurant) Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Price: $$$$ Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Phone: +852 25221624 Best Hole in the Wall in Hong Kong Tsim Chai Kee – 沾仔記 Tsim Chai Kee dish (photo courtesy of Tsim Chai Kee) Having the honor of a Michelin Bib Gourmand for several consecutive years, this restaurant has garnered a devoted following for a good reason. The queue during lunchtime speaks volumes about the quality of their noodles, which come with a choice of three toppings – springy dace balls, generously-filled pork and shrimp wontons and tender sliced beef with a robust meaty flavor. For adventurous eaters, you can even combine two or all three toppings for an enhanced dining experience. Just be prepared to share a table with friendly strangers during busy hours, or visit during off-peak times to savor the flavors without the crowd. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Noodle Soup with Three Kinds of Toppings: King Prawn Wonton (the most famous), Sliced Beef and Fish Balls 招牌云吞面 Price: $ Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32 – 卅二公館 Dining area at Mott 32 (photo courtesy of Mott 32) Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Price: $$$$ Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Phone: +852 28858688 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Hong Kong Aqua The view from Aqua dining area (photo courtesy of Aqua) Aqua offers a distinctive and unforgettable dining experience with its chic interiors and stunning views of Hong Kong’s vibrant harbor and cityscape. Located on the 17th floor of the stylish H Zentre building, the restaurant exudes an intimate and romantic ambiance, perfect for special celebrations and occasions. Offering Italian and Japanese cuisines, the restaurant’s diverse menu delights with dishes like king crab salad, black truffle tagliolini, and lobster pizza. The restaurant also boasts a rooftop bar with a live DJ and breathtaking Hong Kong vistas, making it a perfect spot for enjoying a drink after dinner. To secure a spot at this sought-after destination, it’s advisable to make reservations at least three months in advance. That being said, the restaurant’s rooftop bar is open without reservation. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signature Tataki Platter 招牌刺身拼盘, Lobster Pizza with Lobster Bisque and Thinly Sliced Lobster & Lemon Zest 龙虾披萨配龙虾浓汤和柠檬碎龙虾薄片 Price: $$$$ Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Phone: +852 34272288 Hong Kong is a foodie paradise where dreams of pineapple buns, Hong Kong milk tea, dim sum and char shiu (barbecue pork) are sure to follow. The question in Hong Kong is never what to eat, but where. There are endless choices of where to eat in Hong Kong – member’s only clubs, concealed dim sum dives, and street-side milk tea stands below multi-Michelin star restaurants. Phoebe Yang, WildChina travel designer and Cantonese food-lover, has curated a list of her favorite restaurants in Hong Kong to get you started. However, the below five restaurants are only the tip of the iceberg in Hong Kong, so we encourage you to eat beyond (basically, just eat everything in Hong Kong). Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court – 唐閣 Baked Seafood Rice with Cream Sauce in Crab Shell (photo courtesy of T’ang Court) T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Price: $$$$ Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Phone: +852 21327898 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Yung Kee Restaurant interior (photo courtesy of Yung Kee Restaurant) Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Price: $$$$ Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Phone: +852 25221624 Best Hole in the Wall in Hong Kong Tsim Chai Kee – 沾仔記 Tsim Chai Kee dish (photo courtesy of Tsim Chai Kee) Having the honor of a Michelin Bib Gourmand for several consecutive years, this restaurant has garnered a devoted following for a good reason. The queue during lunchtime speaks volumes about the quality of their noodles, which come with a choice of three toppings – springy dace balls, generously-filled pork and shrimp wontons and tender sliced beef with a robust meaty flavor. For adventurous eaters, you can even combine two or all three toppings for an enhanced dining experience. Just be prepared to share a table with friendly strangers during busy hours, or visit during off-peak times to savor the flavors without the crowd. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Noodle Soup with Three Kinds of Toppings: King Prawn Wonton (the most famous), Sliced Beef and Fish Balls 招牌云吞面 Price: $ Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32 – 卅二公館 Dining area at Mott 32 (photo courtesy of Mott 32) Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Price: $$$$ Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Phone: +852 28858688 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Hong Kong Aqua The view from Aqua dining area (photo courtesy of Aqua) Aqua offers a distinctive and unforgettable dining experience with its chic interiors and stunning views of Hong Kong’s vibrant harbor and cityscape. Located on the 17th floor of the stylish H Zentre building, the restaurant exudes an intimate and romantic ambiance, perfect for special celebrations and occasions. Offering Italian and Japanese cuisines, the restaurant’s diverse menu delights with dishes like king crab salad, black truffle tagliolini, and lobster pizza. The restaurant also boasts a rooftop bar with a live DJ and breathtaking Hong Kong vistas, making it a perfect spot for enjoying a drink after dinner. To secure a spot at this sought-after destination, it’s advisable to make reservations at least three months in advance. That being said, the restaurant’s rooftop bar is open without reservation. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signature Tataki Platter 招牌刺身拼盘, Lobster Pizza with Lobster Bisque and Thinly Sliced Lobster & Lemon Zest 龙虾披萨配龙虾浓汤和柠檬碎龙虾薄片 Price: $$$$ Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Phone: +852 34272288 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court – 唐閣 Baked Seafood Rice with Cream Sauce in Crab Shell (photo courtesy of T’ang Court) T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Price: $$$$ Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Phone: +852 21327898 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Yung Kee Restaurant interior (photo courtesy of Yung Kee Restaurant) Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Price: $$$$ Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Phone: +852 25221624 Best Hole in the Wall in Hong Kong Tsim Chai Kee – 沾仔記 Tsim Chai Kee dish (photo courtesy of Tsim Chai Kee) Having the honor of a Michelin Bib Gourmand for several consecutive years, this restaurant has garnered a devoted following for a good reason. The queue during lunchtime speaks volumes about the quality of their noodles, which come with a choice of three toppings – springy dace balls, generously-filled pork and shrimp wontons and tender sliced beef with a robust meaty flavor. For adventurous eaters, you can even combine two or all three toppings for an enhanced dining experience. Just be prepared to share a table with friendly strangers during busy hours, or visit during off-peak times to savor the flavors without the crowd. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Noodle Soup with Three Kinds of Toppings: King Prawn Wonton (the most famous), Sliced Beef and Fish Balls 招牌云吞面 Price: $ Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32 – 卅二公館 Dining area at Mott 32 (photo courtesy of Mott 32) Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Price: $$$$ Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Phone: +852 28858688 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Hong Kong Aqua The view from Aqua dining area (photo courtesy of Aqua) Aqua offers a distinctive and unforgettable dining experience with its chic interiors and stunning views of Hong Kong’s vibrant harbor and cityscape. Located on the 17th floor of the stylish H Zentre building, the restaurant exudes an intimate and romantic ambiance, perfect for special celebrations and occasions. Offering Italian and Japanese cuisines, the restaurant’s diverse menu delights with dishes like king crab salad, black truffle tagliolini, and lobster pizza. The restaurant also boasts a rooftop bar with a live DJ and breathtaking Hong Kong vistas, making it a perfect spot for enjoying a drink after dinner. To secure a spot at this sought-after destination, it’s advisable to make reservations at least three months in advance. That being said, the restaurant’s rooftop bar is open without reservation. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signature Tataki Platter 招牌刺身拼盘, Lobster Pizza with Lobster Bisque and Thinly Sliced Lobster & Lemon Zest 龙虾披萨配龙虾浓汤和柠檬碎龙虾薄片 Price: $$$$ Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Phone: +852 34272288 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court – 唐閣 Baked Seafood Rice with Cream Sauce in Crab Shell (photo courtesy of T’ang Court) T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Price: $$$$ Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Phone: +852 21327898 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Yung Kee Restaurant interior (photo courtesy of Yung Kee Restaurant) Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Price: $$$$ Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Phone: +852 25221624 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court – 唐閣 Baked Seafood Rice with Cream Sauce in Crab Shell (photo courtesy of T’ang Court) T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Price: $$$$ Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Phone: +852 21327898 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Yung Kee Restaurant interior (photo courtesy of Yung Kee Restaurant) Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Price: $$$$ Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Phone: +852 25221624 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court – 唐閣 Baked Seafood Rice with Cream Sauce in Crab Shell (photo courtesy of T’ang Court) T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Price: $$$$ Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Phone: +852 21327898 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court – 唐閣 Baked Seafood Rice with Cream Sauce in Crab Shell (photo courtesy of T’ang Court) T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Price: $$$$ Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Phone: +852 21327898 Best Gourmet Restaurant in Hong Kong T’ang Court is one of just three Cantonese restaurants to earn three Michelin stars. Open for over three decades, the restaurant’s enduring popularity can be attributed to not only its incredible food, bot also its inviting ambiance, adorned with plush fabrics, elegantly set tables and captivating Chinese art. The true essence lies, however, in the expertise of the head chef and his skilled kitchen team. Their soups, crafted with top-notch ingredients, have garnered the hearts of countless connoisseurs. Peking duck and baked stuffed crab shell are among the delightful specialties that elevate the dining experience. Opening hours for lunch are slightly different on weekdays, weekends and public holidays, so we recommend checking times when making reservations. Phoebe’s favorite dish: Baked stuffed crab shell with crab meat, onion and cream sauce 酿焗鲜蟹盖 Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 Location: 1-2F, The Langham Hotel, No.8 Peking Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 香港尖沙咀北京道8号朗廷酒店1-2楼 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Yung Kee Restaurant interior (photo courtesy of Yung Kee Restaurant) Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Price: $$$$ Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Phone: +852 25221624 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Yung Kee Restaurant interior (photo courtesy of Yung Kee Restaurant) Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Price: $$$$ Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Phone: +852 25221624 The Local’s Favorite Restaurant in Hong Kong Yung Kee Restaurant – 镛记酒家 Founded in 1942, Yung Kee has an iconic presence in Hong Kong’s culinary history, embodying a tale of ingenuity, perseverance and unwavering dedication. From casual to fine dining, this restaurant proudly preserves family recipes, renowned for charcoal-grilled barbecued meats and authentic Cantonese classics. Crafted with honed skills, time-tested techniques and premium ingredients, their dishes are served in a warm and inviting ambience that celebrates the true flavors of Cantonese cuisine. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signatured Charcoal Roasted Goose 正宗炭烧黑棕鹅 and Soup of the Day (*needs to be ordered two days in advance) 厨师巧手老火汤 Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Location: No. 32-40 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街32-40号 Best Hole in the Wall in Hong Kong Tsim Chai Kee – 沾仔記 Tsim Chai Kee dish (photo courtesy of Tsim Chai Kee) Having the honor of a Michelin Bib Gourmand for several consecutive years, this restaurant has garnered a devoted following for a good reason. The queue during lunchtime speaks volumes about the quality of their noodles, which come with a choice of three toppings – springy dace balls, generously-filled pork and shrimp wontons and tender sliced beef with a robust meaty flavor. For adventurous eaters, you can even combine two or all three toppings for an enhanced dining experience. Just be prepared to share a table with friendly strangers during busy hours, or visit during off-peak times to savor the flavors without the crowd. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Noodle Soup with Three Kinds of Toppings: King Prawn Wonton (the most famous), Sliced Beef and Fish Balls 招牌云吞面 Price: $ Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Phone: +86 2083177149 Best Hole in the Wall in Hong Kong Tsim Chai Kee – 沾仔記 Tsim Chai Kee dish (photo courtesy of Tsim Chai Kee) Having the honor of a Michelin Bib Gourmand for several consecutive years, this restaurant has garnered a devoted following for a good reason. The queue during lunchtime speaks volumes about the quality of their noodles, which come with a choice of three toppings – springy dace balls, generously-filled pork and shrimp wontons and tender sliced beef with a robust meaty flavor. For adventurous eaters, you can even combine two or all three toppings for an enhanced dining experience. Just be prepared to share a table with friendly strangers during busy hours, or visit during off-peak times to savor the flavors without the crowd. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Noodle Soup with Three Kinds of Toppings: King Prawn Wonton (the most famous), Sliced Beef and Fish Balls 招牌云吞面 Price: $ Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Phone: +86 2083177149 Best Hole in the Wall in Hong Kong Having the honor of a Michelin Bib Gourmand for several consecutive years, this restaurant has garnered a devoted following for a good reason. The queue during lunchtime speaks volumes about the quality of their noodles, which come with a choice of three toppings – springy dace balls, generously-filled pork and shrimp wontons and tender sliced beef with a robust meaty flavor. For adventurous eaters, you can even combine two or all three toppings for an enhanced dining experience. Just be prepared to share a table with friendly strangers during busy hours, or visit during off-peak times to savor the flavors without the crowd. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Noodle Soup with Three Kinds of Toppings: King Prawn Wonton (the most famous), Sliced Beef and Fish Balls 招牌云吞面 Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Location: No.98 Wellington Street, Central 中环威灵顿街98号 Phone: +86 2083177149 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32 – 卅二公館 Dining area at Mott 32 (photo courtesy of Mott 32) Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Price: $$$$ Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Phone: +852 28858688 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32 – 卅二公館 Dining area at Mott 32 (photo courtesy of Mott 32) Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Price: $$$$ Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Phone: +852 28858688 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32 – 卅二公館 Dining area at Mott 32 (photo courtesy of Mott 32) Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Price: $$$$ Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Phone: +852 28858688 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32 – 卅二公館 Dining area at Mott 32 (photo courtesy of Mott 32) Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Price: $$$$ Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Phone: +852 28858688 The Trendy Restaurant in Hong Kong Mott 32, a renowned Chinese restaurant situated in the heart of Central in Hong Kong, holds two Michelin stars. Named after the historic 32 Mott Street in New York, the birthplace of Chinatown, this establishment captures the essence of a modern Chinese metropolis. The restaurant sources ingredients from around the world to discover new flavor parings while placing paramount importance on the origin of those ingredients. Their commitment to using organic and sustainable ingredients is evident, as they work closely with farms to maintain the utmost quality for their culinary creations. With a commitment to preserving time-honored recipes and embracing modern techniques, Mott 32 offers a spectacular dining experience, having received multiple awards for its exceptional dim sum, delectable dishes, captivating interior design and impressive wine list. It is advisable to make a reservation in advance (reservations for groups of more than 7 people are required via email). Operating daily, the restaurant welcomes guests for lunch from 12:00 to 15:00 and for dinner from 18:00 to 00:00. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Apple Wood Roasted Peking Duck (pre-order needed, limited daily) 苹果木烤北京片皮鸭 and Barbecue Iberico Pork 西班牙黑毛猪叉烧 Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 Location: No.4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, Central 中环德辅道中4-4A号渣打银行大厦地库 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Hong Kong Aqua The view from Aqua dining area (photo courtesy of Aqua) Aqua offers a distinctive and unforgettable dining experience with its chic interiors and stunning views of Hong Kong’s vibrant harbor and cityscape. Located on the 17th floor of the stylish H Zentre building, the restaurant exudes an intimate and romantic ambiance, perfect for special celebrations and occasions. Offering Italian and Japanese cuisines, the restaurant’s diverse menu delights with dishes like king crab salad, black truffle tagliolini, and lobster pizza. The restaurant also boasts a rooftop bar with a live DJ and breathtaking Hong Kong vistas, making it a perfect spot for enjoying a drink after dinner. To secure a spot at this sought-after destination, it’s advisable to make reservations at least three months in advance. That being said, the restaurant’s rooftop bar is open without reservation. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signature Tataki Platter 招牌刺身拼盘, Lobster Pizza with Lobster Bisque and Thinly Sliced Lobster & Lemon Zest 龙虾披萨配龙虾浓汤和柠檬碎龙虾薄片 Price: $$$$ Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Phone: +852 34272288 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Hong Kong Aqua The view from Aqua dining area (photo courtesy of Aqua) Aqua offers a distinctive and unforgettable dining experience with its chic interiors and stunning views of Hong Kong’s vibrant harbor and cityscape. Located on the 17th floor of the stylish H Zentre building, the restaurant exudes an intimate and romantic ambiance, perfect for special celebrations and occasions. Offering Italian and Japanese cuisines, the restaurant’s diverse menu delights with dishes like king crab salad, black truffle tagliolini, and lobster pizza. The restaurant also boasts a rooftop bar with a live DJ and breathtaking Hong Kong vistas, making it a perfect spot for enjoying a drink after dinner. To secure a spot at this sought-after destination, it’s advisable to make reservations at least three months in advance. That being said, the restaurant’s rooftop bar is open without reservation. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signature Tataki Platter 招牌刺身拼盘, Lobster Pizza with Lobster Bisque and Thinly Sliced Lobster & Lemon Zest 龙虾披萨配龙虾浓汤和柠檬碎龙虾薄片 Price: $$$$ Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Phone: +852 34272288 WOW-Factor Dining Experience in Hong Kong Aqua offers a distinctive and unforgettable dining experience with its chic interiors and stunning views of Hong Kong’s vibrant harbor and cityscape. Located on the 17th floor of the stylish H Zentre building, the restaurant exudes an intimate and romantic ambiance, perfect for special celebrations and occasions. Offering Italian and Japanese cuisines, the restaurant’s diverse menu delights with dishes like king crab salad, black truffle tagliolini, and lobster pizza. The restaurant also boasts a rooftop bar with a live DJ and breathtaking Hong Kong vistas, making it a perfect spot for enjoying a drink after dinner. To secure a spot at this sought-after destination, it’s advisable to make reservations at least three months in advance. That being said, the restaurant’s rooftop bar is open without reservation. Phoebe’s favorite dishes: Signature Tataki Platter 招牌刺身拼盘, Lobster Pizza with Lobster Bisque and Thinly Sliced Lobster & Lemon Zest 龙虾披萨配龙虾浓汤和柠檬碎龙虾薄片 Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼 Location: 17/F, H Zentre, 15 Middle Road, Tsim Sha Tsui 尖沙中间道15号H Zentre 17楼