ID: 754db01bceda83de
Title: How to Travel With a Green Code In China
URL: https://wildchina.com/2021/01/green-codes-and-health-kits-in-china/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2021-01-01T18:22:00+08:00
Tags: Technology, Domestic Travel, App, China, COVID-19, Health Code, In the News, Insider Tips
================================================================================

*Please note that as of January 2023, green codes or no longer required for domestic travel in China and the below article is for archive purposes only. As a foreigner in China, you’ll have heard about the green travel Health Code. You’ll know it’s your ticket to traveling around China, to taking a flight or train and staying in a hotel but, if you didn’t leave your city last year, you may not have used it. If you’re considering traveling this Spring, here are our tips for preparing before you leave. First thing, make sure you’ve got the English version of the Health Code app downloaded (or the WeChat or AliPay alternatives). This app was designed specifically for foreigners living in China and international visitors. Although some of you may be able to use the previously released WeChat and Alipay apps, other foreigners could not, potentially because their English names were too long. The updated system is purpose-built to recognize foreign names and passport information. What the app interface looks like as the full app (left) and the WeChat Mini Program (right).We recommend travelers register through the app before they arrive in their intended destination. To download, either in your app store or within WeChat or Alipay, copy ‘国家政府服务平台’ (guo-jia–zheng–fu–fu–wu-ping-tai) into the search bar. Once installed, tap ‘Health Code Traveler Version’ (as pictured above) and follow the instructions to register. Once completed, your traveler information should be updated automatically within 12 hours. Registering for a Green Code using WeChat or Alipay In 2020, and now 2021, it’s all about that green Health Code! The built-in mini-programs are all about tracking where you have been. Upon registering, you will be asked a series of questions, including your whereabouts for the last 14 days and if you’ve had COVID-19 symptoms. Alternatively, if you use the WeChat Health Kit mini-program, you just need to enter your name and passport number, then upload a picture of your ID (all in English!). Based on your answers, and whether you’ve been in a high-risk area or in close contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case, you will be given a colored QR code: red, green, or yellow. You’re looking for that magic green code that says it’s ok to travel. If you have been inoculated by a Chinese COVID-19 vaccine, the app will display details of your latest vaccination status, including the name of the vaccine and the dates of your immunization. This may vary depending on the province where you’re registered. Traveling to Different Regions and Provinces Even though the green code is an officially sanctioned ‘okay to travel,’ different cities and provinces issue their own codes. So, before you travel anywhere outside your region, you need to apply for a green code at your intended destination. Sometimes this is as easy as clicking through a few screens, other times it can take up to 48 hours to be approved. Plan ahead. Additionally, some provinces and cities are requiring travelers to undergo a COVID-19 test before traveling. We are here to help. While getting the most up-to-date information on regulations in each region isn’t always easy, we can assist and guide you through overcoming any challenges you may encounter traveling domestically. Once you’ve selected your destination(s) it’s generally easiest to ask hotels from those different cities to send you codes for that particular city to scan and complete before you arrive. If you’re traveling with WildChina, we’ll send you everything you need. Health Codes are different for each city you travel to in China, as seen above (1) Shanghai, (2) Ningbo, (3) Linzhi, and (4) Lhasa. (Photos by WildChina’s Aki Yang). Regulations and screening can be especially tough on foreigners in some instances, even if you’ve been in China the entire time. But, don’t let that deter you from experiencing this beautiful country. When you’re ready to travel make sure – at a minimum – that you have your health code ready, a valid copy of your ID, and a mask and hand sanitizer to hand. As mentioned, some cities do require a COVID-19 test as well. As we all know, regulations can change at any time, so we do recommend getting a COVID-19 test before you travel, even if there aren’t specific regulations in place. Please feel free to send us a direct message for up-to-date information at any time. Traveling with Children in China If you’re traveling with children, just click on the ‘Add Family Members’ button you’ll see at the bottom of your screen and you can connect them to your account. As always, we are committed to helping you explore China safely and responsibly. Our commitment to you is to help you avoid crowded sites and help you spread your footprint in order to positively support local economies. We want to make sure your travel experience is safe and beneficial not only for you and your guides but also for the communities you visit. All of our guides, drivers, and travel designers have been specially trained to be aware of all risks and safety precautions, as well as being able to take charge of any unexpected changes in your itinerary should they happen. Follow us on WeChat and Stay Connected Scan the QR code below to follow us on WeChat for the most up-to-date information on traveling in China, exclusive itineraries, and all the China travel inspiration you’ll ever need. For regular updates on travel around the country, see our Travel Advisory page. *Please note that as of January 2023, green codes or no longer required for domestic travel in China and the below article is for archive purposes only. As a foreigner in China, you’ll have heard about the green travel Health Code. You’ll know it’s your ticket to traveling around China, to taking a flight or train and staying in a hotel but, if you didn’t leave your city last year, you may not have used it. If you’re considering traveling this Spring, here are our tips for preparing before you leave. First thing, make sure you’ve got the English version of the Health Code app downloaded (or the WeChat or AliPay alternatives). This app was designed specifically for foreigners living in China and international visitors. Although some of you may be able to use the previously released WeChat and Alipay apps, other foreigners could not, potentially because their English names were too long. The updated system is purpose-built to recognize foreign names and passport information. What the app interface looks like as the full app (left) and the WeChat Mini Program (right).We recommend travelers register through the app before they arrive in their intended destination. To download, either in your app store or within WeChat or Alipay, copy ‘国家政府服务平台’ (guo-jia–zheng–fu–fu–wu-ping-tai) into the search bar. Once installed, tap ‘Health Code Traveler Version’ (as pictured above) and follow the instructions to register. Once completed, your traveler information should be updated automatically within 12 hours. Registering for a Green Code using WeChat or Alipay In 2020, and now 2021, it’s all about that green Health Code! The built-in mini-programs are all about tracking where you have been. Upon registering, you will be asked a series of questions, including your whereabouts for the last 14 days and if you’ve had COVID-19 symptoms. Alternatively, if you use the WeChat Health Kit mini-program, you just need to enter your name and passport number, then upload a picture of your ID (all in English!). Based on your answers, and whether you’ve been in a high-risk area or in close contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case, you will be given a colored QR code: red, green, or yellow. You’re looking for that magic green code that says it’s ok to travel. If you have been inoculated by a Chinese COVID-19 vaccine, the app will display details of your latest vaccination status, including the name of the vaccine and the dates of your immunization. This may vary depending on the province where you’re registered. Traveling to Different Regions and Provinces Even though the green code is an officially sanctioned ‘okay to travel,’ different cities and provinces issue their own codes. So, before you travel anywhere outside your region, you need to apply for a green code at your intended destination. Sometimes this is as easy as clicking through a few screens, other times it can take up to 48 hours to be approved. Plan ahead. Additionally, some provinces and cities are requiring travelers to undergo a COVID-19 test before traveling. We are here to help. While getting the most up-to-date information on regulations in each region isn’t always easy, we can assist and guide you through overcoming any challenges you may encounter traveling domestically. Once you’ve selected your destination(s) it’s generally easiest to ask hotels from those different cities to send you codes for that particular city to scan and complete before you arrive. If you’re traveling with WildChina, we’ll send you everything you need. Health Codes are different for each city you travel to in China, as seen above (1) Shanghai, (2) Ningbo, (3) Linzhi, and (4) Lhasa. (Photos by WildChina’s Aki Yang). Regulations and screening can be especially tough on foreigners in some instances, even if you’ve been in China the entire time. But, don’t let that deter you from experiencing this beautiful country. When you’re ready to travel make sure – at a minimum – that you have your health code ready, a valid copy of your ID, and a mask and hand sanitizer to hand. As mentioned, some cities do require a COVID-19 test as well. As we all know, regulations can change at any time, so we do recommend getting a COVID-19 test before you travel, even if there aren’t specific regulations in place. Please feel free to send us a direct message for up-to-date information at any time. Traveling with Children in China If you’re traveling with children, just click on the ‘Add Family Members’ button you’ll see at the bottom of your screen and you can connect them to your account. As always, we are committed to helping you explore China safely and responsibly. Our commitment to you is to help you avoid crowded sites and help you spread your footprint in order to positively support local economies. We want to make sure your travel experience is safe and beneficial not only for you and your guides but also for the communities you visit. All of our guides, drivers, and travel designers have been specially trained to be aware of all risks and safety precautions, as well as being able to take charge of any unexpected changes in your itinerary should they happen. Follow us on WeChat and Stay Connected Scan the QR code below to follow us on WeChat for the most up-to-date information on traveling in China, exclusive itineraries, and all the China travel inspiration you’ll ever need. For regular updates on travel around the country, see our Travel Advisory page. *Please note that as of January 2023, green codes or no longer required for domestic travel in China and the below article is for archive purposes only. As a foreigner in China, you’ll have heard about the green travel Health Code. You’ll know it’s your ticket to traveling around China, to taking a flight or train and staying in a hotel but, if you didn’t leave your city last year, you may not have used it. If you’re considering traveling this Spring, here are our tips for preparing before you leave. First thing, make sure you’ve got the English version of the Health Code app downloaded (or the WeChat or AliPay alternatives). This app was designed specifically for foreigners living in China and international visitors. Although some of you may be able to use the previously released WeChat and Alipay apps, other foreigners could not, potentially because their English names were too long. The updated system is purpose-built to recognize foreign names and passport information. What the app interface looks like as the full app (left) and the WeChat Mini Program (right).We recommend travelers register through the app before they arrive in their intended destination. To download, either in your app store or within WeChat or Alipay, copy ‘国家政府服务平台’ (guo-jia–zheng–fu–fu–wu-ping-tai) into the search bar. Once installed, tap ‘Health Code Traveler Version’ (as pictured above) and follow the instructions to register. Once completed, your traveler information should be updated automatically within 12 hours. Registering for a Green Code using WeChat or Alipay In 2020, and now 2021, it’s all about that green Health Code! The built-in mini-programs are all about tracking where you have been. Upon registering, you will be asked a series of questions, including your whereabouts for the last 14 days and if you’ve had COVID-19 symptoms. Alternatively, if you use the WeChat Health Kit mini-program, you just need to enter your name and passport number, then upload a picture of your ID (all in English!). Based on your answers, and whether you’ve been in a high-risk area or in close contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case, you will be given a colored QR code: red, green, or yellow. You’re looking for that magic green code that says it’s ok to travel. If you have been inoculated by a Chinese COVID-19 vaccine, the app will display details of your latest vaccination status, including the name of the vaccine and the dates of your immunization. This may vary depending on the province where you’re registered. Traveling to Different Regions and Provinces Even though the green code is an officially sanctioned ‘okay to travel,’ different cities and provinces issue their own codes. So, before you travel anywhere outside your region, you need to apply for a green code at your intended destination. Sometimes this is as easy as clicking through a few screens, other times it can take up to 48 hours to be approved. Plan ahead. Additionally, some provinces and cities are requiring travelers to undergo a COVID-19 test before traveling. We are here to help. While getting the most up-to-date information on regulations in each region isn’t always easy, we can assist and guide you through overcoming any challenges you may encounter traveling domestically. Once you’ve selected your destination(s) it’s generally easiest to ask hotels from those different cities to send you codes for that particular city to scan and complete before you arrive. If you’re traveling with WildChina, we’ll send you everything you need. Health Codes are different for each city you travel to in China, as seen above (1) Shanghai, (2) Ningbo, (3) Linzhi, and (4) Lhasa. (Photos by WildChina’s Aki Yang). Regulations and screening can be especially tough on foreigners in some instances, even if you’ve been in China the entire time. But, don’t let that deter you from experiencing this beautiful country. When you’re ready to travel make sure – at a minimum – that you have your health code ready, a valid copy of your ID, and a mask and hand sanitizer to hand. As mentioned, some cities do require a COVID-19 test as well. As we all know, regulations can change at any time, so we do recommend getting a COVID-19 test before you travel, even if there aren’t specific regulations in place. Please feel free to send us a direct message for up-to-date information at any time. Traveling with Children in China If you’re traveling with children, just click on the ‘Add Family Members’ button you’ll see at the bottom of your screen and you can connect them to your account. As always, we are committed to helping you explore China safely and responsibly. Our commitment to you is to help you avoid crowded sites and help you spread your footprint in order to positively support local economies. We want to make sure your travel experience is safe and beneficial not only for you and your guides but also for the communities you visit. All of our guides, drivers, and travel designers have been specially trained to be aware of all risks and safety precautions, as well as being able to take charge of any unexpected changes in your itinerary should they happen. Follow us on WeChat and Stay Connected Scan the QR code below to follow us on WeChat for the most up-to-date information on traveling in China, exclusive itineraries, and all the China travel inspiration you’ll ever need. For regular updates on travel around the country, see our Travel Advisory page.