ID: 5cfd9bf08b3df715
Title: How to Add a Spoonful of Sugar to Your Shanghai Disney Vacation
URL: https://wildchina.com/2016/02/how-to-add-a-spoonful-of-sugar-to-your-shanghai-disney-vacation/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2016-02-03T16:32:03+08:00
Tags: Shanghai, Family, Family Travel, Destinations
================================================================================

The big announcement has finally come: Disney’s Shanghai Park will be opening on June 16, 2016. That means a long weekend in Shanghai with the whole family is definitely in order. Here are some of our very favorite Shanghai activities that will bring a little Disney magic into your whole tour of the city. 1. Learn how to fend off all the palace guards with a Broadsword Wushu class on the Bund Chinese martial arts are great fun to practice and as if it couldn’t get any better, this form of Wushu adds a sword to the mix. WildChina arranges this family favorite activity right at the heart of Shanghai on the iconic Bund. Wushu is said to strengthen the body and sharpen the mind. You’ll feel fitter and more alert and ready for your next Shanghai experience. 2. LEt’s go fly a kite! – in ONE OF Shanghai’s oldest and most beloved park Stop by a street-side kite seller outside Fuxing Park and choose one of any number of elaborate kites to fly in the open park. Pick a classic style, or maybe even one featuring your favorite Chinese cartoon character. Then join both young and old neighborhood residents and get a feel for local daily life. This is the perfect way to wind down at the end of a magical Shanghai Disney weekend. 3. Bring along your “faith, Trust and Pixie dust” as you watch these acrobats fly You’ve not seen an acrobatic performance until you’ve seen Shanghai’s ERA Acrobatic Troop. It’s the kind of performance that will leave an impression on your kids long after they’ve forgotten what sort of hotel you stayed in or how many famous buildings you saw. You’ll be shocked and then delighted and then shocked again by a combination of impressive physical skill and spectacular showmanship. 4. Get ready for your chase scene on a sidecar tour of the French Concession It’s time to explore Shanghai, and explore you shall! Swerve in and out of the winding roads of Shanghai’s French Concession in a family sidecar tour. This classic ride is the perfect mode of transport for the colonial era French concession district. Large cedar trees, heavy with golden leaves in the fall hang high over the streets and the architecture and winding roads of the neighborhood are sure to endear you to this quaint historical neighborhood. 5. “Anyone can cook, but only the fearless can be great” – Release your inner chef with a xiaolongbao cooking class Shanghai’s xiaolongbao (or little dragon buns) are one of the most scrumptious treats you’ll taste on your Shanghai Disney trip. Each little doughy morsel is filled with a slurp of soup and a ball of tasty pork. They are then steamed to perfection in a bamboo long. Kids and adults alike can roll up their sleeves and get their hands dirty as they learn to wrap and steam this Shanghai favorite. — Can’t wait till Disney opens to begin your Shanghai vacation? Check out our Shanghai Highlife tour to jump on your own magic-filled Shanghai vacation with WildChina. Related Tours: Photo credits: 3. adam. via flikr/photobucket.com 4. tripadvisor.com The big announcement has finally come: Disney’s Shanghai Park will be opening on June 16, 2016. That means a long weekend in Shanghai with the whole family is definitely in order. Here are some of our very favorite Shanghai activities that will bring a little Disney magic into your whole tour of the city. 1. Learn how to fend off all the palace guards with a Broadsword Wushu class on the Bund Chinese martial arts are great fun to practice and as if it couldn’t get any better, this form of Wushu adds a sword to the mix. WildChina arranges this family favorite activity right at the heart of Shanghai on the iconic Bund. Wushu is said to strengthen the body and sharpen the mind. You’ll feel fitter and more alert and ready for your next Shanghai experience. 2. LEt’s go fly a kite! – in ONE OF Shanghai’s oldest and most beloved park Stop by a street-side kite seller outside Fuxing Park and choose one of any number of elaborate kites to fly in the open park. Pick a classic style, or maybe even one featuring your favorite Chinese cartoon character. Then join both young and old neighborhood residents and get a feel for local daily life. This is the perfect way to wind down at the end of a magical Shanghai Disney weekend. 3. Bring along your “faith, Trust and Pixie dust” as you watch these acrobats fly You’ve not seen an acrobatic performance until you’ve seen Shanghai’s ERA Acrobatic Troop. It’s the kind of performance that will leave an impression on your kids long after they’ve forgotten what sort of hotel you stayed in or how many famous buildings you saw. You’ll be shocked and then delighted and then shocked again by a combination of impressive physical skill and spectacular showmanship. 4. Get ready for your chase scene on a sidecar tour of the French Concession It’s time to explore Shanghai, and explore you shall! Swerve in and out of the winding roads of Shanghai’s French Concession in a family sidecar tour. This classic ride is the perfect mode of transport for the colonial era French concession district. Large cedar trees, heavy with golden leaves in the fall hang high over the streets and the architecture and winding roads of the neighborhood are sure to endear you to this quaint historical neighborhood. 5. “Anyone can cook, but only the fearless can be great” – Release your inner chef with a xiaolongbao cooking class Shanghai’s xiaolongbao (or little dragon buns) are one of the most scrumptious treats you’ll taste on your Shanghai Disney trip. Each little doughy morsel is filled with a slurp of soup and a ball of tasty pork. They are then steamed to perfection in a bamboo long. Kids and adults alike can roll up their sleeves and get their hands dirty as they learn to wrap and steam this Shanghai favorite. — Can’t wait till Disney opens to begin your Shanghai vacation? Check out our Shanghai Highlife tour to jump on your own magic-filled Shanghai vacation with WildChina. Related Tours: Photo credits: 3. adam. via flikr/photobucket.com 4. tripadvisor.com The big announcement has finally come: Disney’s Shanghai Park will be opening on June 16, 2016. That means a long weekend in Shanghai with the whole family is definitely in order. Here are some of our very favorite Shanghai activities that will bring a little Disney magic into your whole tour of the city. 1. Learn how to fend off all the palace guards with a Broadsword Wushu class on the Bund Chinese martial arts are great fun to practice and as if it couldn’t get any better, this form of Wushu adds a sword to the mix. WildChina arranges this family favorite activity right at the heart of Shanghai on the iconic Bund. Wushu is said to strengthen the body and sharpen the mind. You’ll feel fitter and more alert and ready for your next Shanghai experience. 2. LEt’s go fly a kite! – in ONE OF Shanghai’s oldest and most beloved park Stop by a street-side kite seller outside Fuxing Park and choose one of any number of elaborate kites to fly in the open park. Pick a classic style, or maybe even one featuring your favorite Chinese cartoon character. Then join both young and old neighborhood residents and get a feel for local daily life. This is the perfect way to wind down at the end of a magical Shanghai Disney weekend. 3. Bring along your “faith, Trust and Pixie dust” as you watch these acrobats fly You’ve not seen an acrobatic performance until you’ve seen Shanghai’s ERA Acrobatic Troop. It’s the kind of performance that will leave an impression on your kids long after they’ve forgotten what sort of hotel you stayed in or how many famous buildings you saw. You’ll be shocked and then delighted and then shocked again by a combination of impressive physical skill and spectacular showmanship. 4. Get ready for your chase scene on a sidecar tour of the French Concession It’s time to explore Shanghai, and explore you shall! Swerve in and out of the winding roads of Shanghai’s French Concession in a family sidecar tour. This classic ride is the perfect mode of transport for the colonial era French concession district. Large cedar trees, heavy with golden leaves in the fall hang high over the streets and the architecture and winding roads of the neighborhood are sure to endear you to this quaint historical neighborhood. 5. “Anyone can cook, but only the fearless can be great” – Release your inner chef with a xiaolongbao cooking class Shanghai’s xiaolongbao (or little dragon buns) are one of the most scrumptious treats you’ll taste on your Shanghai Disney trip. Each little doughy morsel is filled with a slurp of soup and a ball of tasty pork. They are then steamed to perfection in a bamboo long. Kids and adults alike can roll up their sleeves and get their hands dirty as they learn to wrap and steam this Shanghai favorite. Can’t wait till Disney opens to begin your Shanghai vacation? Check out our Shanghai Highlife tour to jump on your own magic-filled Shanghai vacation with WildChina. Photo credits: 3. adam. via flikr/photobucket.com 4. tripadvisor.com