ID: 4c699011ec2e56d1
Title: Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai | WildChina Blog
URL: https://wildchina.com/2018/04/best-upscale-restaurants-in-shanghai/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2018-04-27T14:57:27+08:00
Tags: Shanghai, Foodie Finds
================================================================================

When it comes to international renown and cuisine, Shanghai certainly lives up to its nickname as the ‘Paris of the East’. In Michelin’s 2018 Shanghai guide, the city was awarded a number of additional stars and two restaurants even received the coveted “3 Michelin stars” status. We pride ourselves in always having first-hand information about China’s hottest travel gems to share with our clients so when we hear about exclusive dining experiences, we go straight there to check them out personally. Here are a few of our favorite upscale restaurants in Shanghai: RELATED READING: Best Cities to Spend New Year’s Eve in China Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – M on the Bund The ambience of this restaurant is perfectly accented with its view overlooking the river from the 7th floor. Sit inside or out on the open-air terrace for a better look at the iconic city. At M on the Bund, Foie gras, black truffles, and other local ingredients are used throughout the menu which includes European classics like crispy suckling pig, and salted leg of lamb. Make sure you save room for dessert too because the pavlova here is divine. M on the bund has won several awards including “Shanghai’s Best Fusion Restaurant,” “Best Wine Selection,” and “One of the 50 Best Restaurants in the World” (Conde Nast Traveler). It combines tastes from several different continents to create a menu that is loved by visitors and locals alike. RELATED READING: Top 3 Hotels on the Bund Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – Yi Long Ge Just like M on the Bund, you’ll have a wonderful view of the river and Shanghai’s historic waterfront at Yi Long Ge. Unlike M though, Yi Long Ge focuses on creating modern adaptations of classic Chinese and Cantonese dishes. This restaurant is located within The Peninsula Hotel and the decor is classically elegant and refined. The staff at Yi Long Ge is considerate and sensitive to even the most refined of needs, and will help with anything you need. RELATED READING: 5 (Alternative) Must-Sees in Shanghai Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – T’ang Court When you first walk into T’ang Court, you’ll be amazed at the massive windows that reveal the splendor of Shanghai, as well as the high ceilings and pristine floor layout. This restaurant was the first in Mainland China to be awarded three Michelin stars and it’s not a surprise. The staff here are incredibly skilled at anticipating customer’s needs and the menu has a delectable Cantonese flair. You’ll be presented with a “tasting menu” so you can enjoy the variety of their fare and be sure to try the Peking duck – It’s as succulent as you’ll ever find it. No grease, packed with flavor, and fresh from the farm. RELATED READING: Interview with Shanghai Jewish History Expert Dvir Bar-Gal Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai –Ultraviolet In Michelin’s 2018 guide, Ultraviolet became the second restaurant in Mainland China to receive 3 Michelin stars. With a name like Ultraviolet, you know you’re in for a different kind of dining experience. Self-proclaimed as “avant-garde”, the decor is highlighted by, as you might imagine, a purple-ish violet light. You’ll find ten chairs around one table and every guest is served the same 20-course set meal. Your meal will then be enhanced by a multimedia experience of sound, video, and light from both the table and the walls. Due to Ultraviolet’s limited capacity of 10 diners per night, this restaurant books up months in advance. If you want to add an experience at Ultraviolet to your Shanghai trip, be sure to book ahead. These restaurants are just a taster of the upscale dining options available to you in Shanghai and each will provide an experience you’ll remember for years to come. Talk to our Trip Designers about visiting Shanghai and they’ll carefully curate an itinerary full of restaurant experiences that’ll delight all of your senses. When it comes to international renown and cuisine, Shanghai certainly lives up to its nickname as the ‘Paris of the East’. In Michelin’s 2018 Shanghai guide, the city was awarded a number of additional stars and two restaurants even received the coveted “3 Michelin stars” status. We pride ourselves in always having first-hand information about China’s hottest travel gems to share with our clients so when we hear about exclusive dining experiences, we go straight there to check them out personally. Here are a few of our favorite upscale restaurants in Shanghai: RELATED READING: Best Cities to Spend New Year’s Eve in China Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – M on the Bund The ambience of this restaurant is perfectly accented with its view overlooking the river from the 7th floor. Sit inside or out on the open-air terrace for a better look at the iconic city. At M on the Bund, Foie gras, black truffles, and other local ingredients are used throughout the menu which includes European classics like crispy suckling pig, and salted leg of lamb. Make sure you save room for dessert too because the pavlova here is divine. M on the bund has won several awards including “Shanghai’s Best Fusion Restaurant,” “Best Wine Selection,” and “One of the 50 Best Restaurants in the World” (Conde Nast Traveler). It combines tastes from several different continents to create a menu that is loved by visitors and locals alike. RELATED READING: Top 3 Hotels on the Bund Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – Yi Long Ge Just like M on the Bund, you’ll have a wonderful view of the river and Shanghai’s historic waterfront at Yi Long Ge. Unlike M though, Yi Long Ge focuses on creating modern adaptations of classic Chinese and Cantonese dishes. This restaurant is located within The Peninsula Hotel and the decor is classically elegant and refined. The staff at Yi Long Ge is considerate and sensitive to even the most refined of needs, and will help with anything you need. RELATED READING: 5 (Alternative) Must-Sees in Shanghai Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – T’ang Court When you first walk into T’ang Court, you’ll be amazed at the massive windows that reveal the splendor of Shanghai, as well as the high ceilings and pristine floor layout. This restaurant was the first in Mainland China to be awarded three Michelin stars and it’s not a surprise. The staff here are incredibly skilled at anticipating customer’s needs and the menu has a delectable Cantonese flair. You’ll be presented with a “tasting menu” so you can enjoy the variety of their fare and be sure to try the Peking duck – It’s as succulent as you’ll ever find it. No grease, packed with flavor, and fresh from the farm. RELATED READING: Interview with Shanghai Jewish History Expert Dvir Bar-Gal Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai –Ultraviolet In Michelin’s 2018 guide, Ultraviolet became the second restaurant in Mainland China to receive 3 Michelin stars. With a name like Ultraviolet, you know you’re in for a different kind of dining experience. Self-proclaimed as “avant-garde”, the decor is highlighted by, as you might imagine, a purple-ish violet light. You’ll find ten chairs around one table and every guest is served the same 20-course set meal. Your meal will then be enhanced by a multimedia experience of sound, video, and light from both the table and the walls. Due to Ultraviolet’s limited capacity of 10 diners per night, this restaurant books up months in advance. If you want to add an experience at Ultraviolet to your Shanghai trip, be sure to book ahead. These restaurants are just a taster of the upscale dining options available to you in Shanghai and each will provide an experience you’ll remember for years to come. Talk to our Trip Designers about visiting Shanghai and they’ll carefully curate an itinerary full of restaurant experiences that’ll delight all of your senses. When it comes to international renown and cuisine, Shanghai certainly lives up to its nickname as the ‘Paris of the East’. In Michelin’s 2018 Shanghai guide, the city was awarded a number of additional stars and two restaurants even received the coveted “3 Michelin stars” status. We pride ourselves in always having first-hand information about China’s hottest travel gems to share with our clients so when we hear about exclusive dining experiences, we go straight there to check them out personally. Here are a few of our favorite upscale restaurants in Shanghai: RELATED READING: Best Cities to Spend New Year’s Eve in China Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – M on the Bund The ambience of this restaurant is perfectly accented with its view overlooking the river from the 7th floor. Sit inside or out on the open-air terrace for a better look at the iconic city. At M on the Bund, Foie gras, black truffles, and other local ingredients are used throughout the menu which includes European classics like crispy suckling pig, and salted leg of lamb. Make sure you save room for dessert too because the pavlova here is divine. M on the bund has won several awards including “Shanghai’s Best Fusion Restaurant,” “Best Wine Selection,” and “One of the 50 Best Restaurants in the World” (Conde Nast Traveler). It combines tastes from several different continents to create a menu that is loved by visitors and locals alike. RELATED READING: Top 3 Hotels on the Bund Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – Yi Long Ge Just like M on the Bund, you’ll have a wonderful view of the river and Shanghai’s historic waterfront at Yi Long Ge. Unlike M though, Yi Long Ge focuses on creating modern adaptations of classic Chinese and Cantonese dishes. This restaurant is located within The Peninsula Hotel and the decor is classically elegant and refined. The staff at Yi Long Ge is considerate and sensitive to even the most refined of needs, and will help with anything you need. RELATED READING: 5 (Alternative) Must-Sees in Shanghai Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai – T’ang Court When you first walk into T’ang Court, you’ll be amazed at the massive windows that reveal the splendor of Shanghai, as well as the high ceilings and pristine floor layout. This restaurant was the first in Mainland China to be awarded three Michelin stars and it’s not a surprise. The staff here are incredibly skilled at anticipating customer’s needs and the menu has a delectable Cantonese flair. You’ll be presented with a “tasting menu” so you can enjoy the variety of their fare and be sure to try the Peking duck – It’s as succulent as you’ll ever find it. No grease, packed with flavor, and fresh from the farm. RELATED READING: Interview with Shanghai Jewish History Expert Dvir Bar-Gal Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai –Ultraviolet In Michelin’s 2018 guide, Ultraviolet became the second restaurant in Mainland China to receive 3 Michelin stars. With a name like Ultraviolet, you know you’re in for a different kind of dining experience. Self-proclaimed as “avant-garde”, the decor is highlighted by, as you might imagine, a purple-ish violet light. You’ll find ten chairs around one table and every guest is served the same 20-course set meal. Your meal will then be enhanced by a multimedia experience of sound, video, and light from both the table and the walls. Due to Ultraviolet’s limited capacity of 10 diners per night, this restaurant books up months in advance. If you want to add an experience at Ultraviolet to your Shanghai trip, be sure to book ahead. These restaurants are just a taster of the upscale dining options available to you in Shanghai and each will provide an experience you’ll remember for years to come. Talk to our Trip Designers about visiting Shanghai and they’ll carefully curate an itinerary full of restaurant experiences that’ll delight all of your senses.