ID: 7f992ba920b626ff
Title: Inside The Temple House Chengdu | WildChina Blog
URL: https://wildchina.com/2015/09/new-temple-house-chengdu/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2015-09-09T17:22:12+08:00
Tags: Chengdu, Art & Architechture, Destinations
================================================================================

WildChina travel designer Gloria Guo won a one-night stay at the newly opened Temple House in Chengdu. Go behind the scenes as she shares her favorite finds inside this much-anticipated new hotel. First of all, the location of The Temple House, Chengdu is superb. It’s right in the center of the new Taikoo Li shopping area and just a short walk from Chunxi Lu – Chengdu’s pedestrian shopping thoroughfare. You’re smack in the middle of the heart of Chengdu here. When you walk through the main entry, you’ll find yourself in a beautifully restored courtyard. To the right is the Temple House Art Gallery. To the left was one of my favorite discoveries – a delightful little reading room. Shelves of books, comfortable seating, and self-serve coffee make this a wonderful place to spend a quiet evening. Like in its sister hotels – the Opposite House Beijing and the Upper House Hong Kong – there’s no need here to wait at the front desk to check in. You’ll be met by a friendly attendant at the front door and shown to your room, where you’ll check in via the hotel’s iPad. I staid in Studio 60 – the rooms are named for size – and my sixty square meter room felt luxuriously spacious. Behind the bed is a sleek bathroom with two sinks and of course, a large, luxurious tub. Besides the overall minimalist comfort of the room it was the little details that I especially loved. I received a hand-written welcome card and cookies. (I’d already eaten most of the cookies by the time I thought to take a picture!) The fresh flowers, and generous complimentary minibar selections all added to the welcome. And many of the personal items around the room were designer pieces. Doesn’t this tea set make you want to sit and have a cup of green tea? The minibar was beautifully arranged with little jars of candy – including some of everyone’s favorites, M&M’s, but also some Chinese favorites – the “White Rabbit” sweet milk candy that every Chinese kid of the 90’s grew up on. The comforts extended to the practical. Next to the bed was a convenient pull-out drawer of outlets – universal and USB. Because, let’s be honest, we all love to use our iPads and phones while lying in bed. Beyond the room itself are a number of other wonderful facilities on the premises. A look at the elevator door will give you the full menu: The Tivano restaurant has been much anticipated – recognized by CNN long before its opening, and the gym and swimming pool are sublime. The pool is set in the below ground level with floods of natural light streaming down through high windows – quite a clever design. My favorite though, was the spa. When you book a spa appointment, you’ll be guided out of the main building and into a refurbished Chinese home. The effect is marvelous, with the old grey stone and traditional roofing tiles. It’s just the kind of atmosphere you long for in a good spa – a personal retreat that feels outside of time. The Courtyard Suites are still under construction, but I did get a peek at the Deluxe Temple Suite. Besides being beautiful and spacious, these rooms have a fabulous balcony that overlooks the city of Chengdu – quite a fun way to spend a night in China’s spiciest city! — Plan your own Chengdu getaway with a stay at the Temple House. Check out our trip itinerary Chengdu: Panda Country. WildChina travel designer Gloria Guo won a one-night stay at the newly opened Temple House in Chengdu. Go behind the scenes as she shares her favorite finds inside this much-anticipated new hotel. First of all, the location of The Temple House, Chengdu is superb. It’s right in the center of the new Taikoo Li shopping area and just a short walk from Chunxi Lu – Chengdu’s pedestrian shopping thoroughfare. You’re smack in the middle of the heart of Chengdu here. When you walk through the main entry, you’ll find yourself in a beautifully restored courtyard. To the right is the Temple House Art Gallery. To the left was one of my favorite discoveries – a delightful little reading room. Shelves of books, comfortable seating, and self-serve coffee make this a wonderful place to spend a quiet evening. Like in its sister hotels – the Opposite House Beijing and the Upper House Hong Kong – there’s no need here to wait at the front desk to check in. You’ll be met by a friendly attendant at the front door and shown to your room, where you’ll check in via the hotel’s iPad. I staid in Studio 60 – the rooms are named for size – and my sixty square meter room felt luxuriously spacious. Behind the bed is a sleek bathroom with two sinks and of course, a large, luxurious tub. Besides the overall minimalist comfort of the room it was the little details that I especially loved. I received a hand-written welcome card and cookies. (I’d already eaten most of the cookies by the time I thought to take a picture!) The fresh flowers, and generous complimentary minibar selections all added to the welcome. And many of the personal items around the room were designer pieces. Doesn’t this tea set make you want to sit and have a cup of green tea? The minibar was beautifully arranged with little jars of candy – including some of everyone’s favorites, M&M’s, but also some Chinese favorites – the “White Rabbit” sweet milk candy that every Chinese kid of the 90’s grew up on. The comforts extended to the practical. Next to the bed was a convenient pull-out drawer of outlets – universal and USB. Because, let’s be honest, we all love to use our iPads and phones while lying in bed. Beyond the room itself are a number of other wonderful facilities on the premises. A look at the elevator door will give you the full menu: The Tivano restaurant has been much anticipated – recognized by CNN long before its opening, and the gym and swimming pool are sublime. The pool is set in the below ground level with floods of natural light streaming down through high windows – quite a clever design. My favorite though, was the spa. When you book a spa appointment, you’ll be guided out of the main building and into a refurbished Chinese home. The effect is marvelous, with the old grey stone and traditional roofing tiles. It’s just the kind of atmosphere you long for in a good spa – a personal retreat that feels outside of time. The Courtyard Suites are still under construction, but I did get a peek at the Deluxe Temple Suite. Besides being beautiful and spacious, these rooms have a fabulous balcony that overlooks the city of Chengdu – quite a fun way to spend a night in China’s spiciest city! — Plan your own Chengdu getaway with a stay at the Temple House. Check out our trip itinerary Chengdu: Panda Country. WildChina travel designer Gloria Guo won a one-night stay at the newly opened Temple House in Chengdu. Go behind the scenes as she shares her favorite finds inside this much-anticipated new hotel. First of all, the location of The Temple House, Chengdu is superb. It’s right in the center of the new Taikoo Li shopping area and just a short walk from Chunxi Lu – Chengdu’s pedestrian shopping thoroughfare. You’re smack in the middle of the heart of Chengdu here. When you walk through the main entry, you’ll find yourself in a beautifully restored courtyard. To the right is the Temple House Art Gallery. To the left was one of my favorite discoveries – a delightful little reading room. Shelves of books, comfortable seating, and self-serve coffee make this a wonderful place to spend a quiet evening. Like in its sister hotels – the Opposite House Beijing and the Upper House Hong Kong – there’s no need here to wait at the front desk to check in. You’ll be met by a friendly attendant at the front door and shown to your room, where you’ll check in via the hotel’s iPad. I staid in Studio 60 – the rooms are named for size – and my sixty square meter room felt luxuriously spacious. Behind the bed is a sleek bathroom with two sinks and of course, a large, luxurious tub. Besides the overall minimalist comfort of the room it was the little details that I especially loved. I received a hand-written welcome card and cookies. (I’d already eaten most of the cookies by the time I thought to take a picture!) The fresh flowers, and generous complimentary minibar selections all added to the welcome. And many of the personal items around the room were designer pieces. Doesn’t this tea set make you want to sit and have a cup of green tea? The minibar was beautifully arranged with little jars of candy – including some of everyone’s favorites, M&M’s, but also some Chinese favorites – the “White Rabbit” sweet milk candy that every Chinese kid of the 90’s grew up on. The comforts extended to the practical. Next to the bed was a convenient pull-out drawer of outlets – universal and USB. Because, let’s be honest, we all love to use our iPads and phones while lying in bed. Beyond the room itself are a number of other wonderful facilities on the premises. A look at the elevator door will give you the full menu: The Tivano restaurant has been much anticipated – recognized by CNN long before its opening, and the gym and swimming pool are sublime. The pool is set in the below ground level with floods of natural light streaming down through high windows – quite a clever design. My favorite though, was the spa. When you book a spa appointment, you’ll be guided out of the main building and into a refurbished Chinese home. The effect is marvelous, with the old grey stone and traditional roofing tiles. It’s just the kind of atmosphere you long for in a good spa – a personal retreat that feels outside of time. The Courtyard Suites are still under construction, but I did get a peek at the Deluxe Temple Suite. Besides being beautiful and spacious, these rooms have a fabulous balcony that overlooks the city of Chengdu – quite a fun way to spend a night in China’s spiciest city! Plan your own Chengdu getaway with a stay at the Temple House. Check out our trip itinerary Chengdu: Panda Country.