ID: 681bb641a54f9fa1
Title: Why China's the Next Hot Luxury Travel Destination
URL: https://wildchina.com/2018/03/luxury-travel-5-reasons-why-chinas-the-next-hot-destination/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2018-03-30T16:04:08+08:00
Tags: Editor's Pick
================================================================================

China is changing fast and quickly realizing the incredible potential it has to offer the luxury traveler. Today’s China knows just as much about adventure, pampering, five-star accommodation and sumptuous fine dining as pretty much anywhere else in the world. Here are five reasons why China is the next hot destination for luxury travel: RELATED READING: 5 Off-the-Beaten-Path Destinations in China Off-the-Beaten-Path Adventures From the shimmering mountains of the Himalayas to the deserts of Xinjiang, China contains enough surprises to delight even the most seasoned wanderer. Imagine yourself discovering the fabled Tea Horse Road, which connects Southwest China to Bengal, in the company of award-winning explorer Jeff Fuchs, the first westerner to hike the entire route. China has many stunning adventures that will take your breath away. For off-the-beaten-path luxury, experience the Silk Road on our Marco Polo’s Silk Road journey. You can enjoy a private BBQ in the desert (complete with champagne) and at the Mogao Caves in Dunhuang, you can also be led around the medieval Buddhist art by the executive director of the historic site. RELATED READINGS: The China Expert’s Hottest Hotels in China Award-winning Hotels China isn’t all mountain roads and dense forests, it’s also a great place to relax in five-star comfort and indulge in some well-earned pampering. International brands like the Waldorf Astoria, Banyantree, Rosewood, and the Peninsula have made their home in the Middle Kingdom. Home-grown luxury boutique options like the Songtsam Lodges in the mythical Shangri-la Valleys will also show you that ‘luxury’ and ‘comfort’ mean exactly the same here as they do back home. RELATED READING: 6 Signature Dishes of Authentic Chinese Food Michelin Star Cuisine If you’re on the hunt for fine dining, then China has got you covered. The venerable Michelin restaurant guide has just prepared its first China edition. You’ll discover that Chinese food is as rich and varied as the country itself, as you test your endurance with a spicy Sichuanese meal and soothe the soul with a sweet dinner in Shanghai. Thirty of Shanghai’s finest food and beverage hotspots were awarded highly coveted Michelin stars this year, while a further twenty-seven were awarded the Bib Gourmand. In true luxury fashion, you can also explore China’s cuisine with award-winning food writer and Chinese food expert Fuchsia Dunlop on both our Gastronomic Tour of China and Yunnan Gastronomic Tour. RELATED READING: Top 3 Hotels on the Bund Glitz and Glamor Style may not be the first word to spring to mind when you think of China, but major cities like Shanghai and Beijing are certainly mixing glamour into the ancient history of this rapidly changing country. Zipping around in a sidecar around Shanghai’s historic French Concession is a great example of old meets new. And what about sipping martinis at a rooftop bar on the Bund in Shanghai, or visiting Beijing’s clean and crisp Sanlitun district where you’ll find international designers galore. RELATED READING: 5 Reasons to Visit China 5000 Years of History, VIP Style The fact that China is old is, of course, nothing new. Locals will delight in telling you about this country’s five millennia of history and your WildChina guide will be more than happy to translate your questions. Don’t settle for an ordinary China tour, WildChina makes the ancient, must-visit sights in China more luxurious with our signature personalized touches. We’ll greet you with a champagne brunch on the Great Wall near Beijing if you’d like. China is changing fast and quickly realizing the incredible potential it has to offer the luxury traveler. Today’s China knows just as much about adventure, pampering, five-star accommodation and sumptuous fine dining as pretty much anywhere else in the world. Here are five reasons why China is the next hot destination for luxury travel: RELATED READING: 5 Off-the-Beaten-Path Destinations in China Off-the-Beaten-Path Adventures From the shimmering mountains of the Himalayas to the deserts of Xinjiang, China contains enough surprises to delight even the most seasoned wanderer. Imagine yourself discovering the fabled Tea Horse Road, which connects Southwest China to Bengal, in the company of award-winning explorer Jeff Fuchs, the first westerner to hike the entire route. China has many stunning adventures that will take your breath away. For off-the-beaten-path luxury, experience the Silk Road on our Marco Polo’s Silk Road journey. You can enjoy a private BBQ in the desert (complete with champagne) and at the Mogao Caves in Dunhuang, you can also be led around the medieval Buddhist art by the executive director of the historic site. RELATED READINGS: The China Expert’s Hottest Hotels in China Award-winning Hotels China isn’t all mountain roads and dense forests, it’s also a great place to relax in five-star comfort and indulge in some well-earned pampering. International brands like the Waldorf Astoria, Banyantree, Rosewood, and the Peninsula have made their home in the Middle Kingdom. Home-grown luxury boutique options like the Songtsam Lodges in the mythical Shangri-la Valleys will also show you that ‘luxury’ and ‘comfort’ mean exactly the same here as they do back home. RELATED READING: 6 Signature Dishes of Authentic Chinese Food Michelin Star Cuisine If you’re on the hunt for fine dining, then China has got you covered. The venerable Michelin restaurant guide has just prepared its first China edition. You’ll discover that Chinese food is as rich and varied as the country itself, as you test your endurance with a spicy Sichuanese meal and soothe the soul with a sweet dinner in Shanghai. Thirty of Shanghai’s finest food and beverage hotspots were awarded highly coveted Michelin stars this year, while a further twenty-seven were awarded the Bib Gourmand. In true luxury fashion, you can also explore China’s cuisine with award-winning food writer and Chinese food expert Fuchsia Dunlop on both our Gastronomic Tour of China and Yunnan Gastronomic Tour. RELATED READING: Top 3 Hotels on the Bund Glitz and Glamor Style may not be the first word to spring to mind when you think of China, but major cities like Shanghai and Beijing are certainly mixing glamour into the ancient history of this rapidly changing country. Zipping around in a sidecar around Shanghai’s historic French Concession is a great example of old meets new. And what about sipping martinis at a rooftop bar on the Bund in Shanghai, or visiting Beijing’s clean and crisp Sanlitun district where you’ll find international designers galore. RELATED READING: 5 Reasons to Visit China 5000 Years of History, VIP Style The fact that China is old is, of course, nothing new. Locals will delight in telling you about this country’s five millennia of history and your WildChina guide will be more than happy to translate your questions. Don’t settle for an ordinary China tour, WildChina makes the ancient, must-visit sights in China more luxurious with our signature personalized touches. We’ll greet you with a champagne brunch on the Great Wall near Beijing if you’d like. China is changing fast and quickly realizing the incredible potential it has to offer the luxury traveler. Today’s China knows just as much about adventure, pampering, five-star accommodation and sumptuous fine dining as pretty much anywhere else in the world. Here are five reasons why China is the next hot destination for luxury travel: RELATED READING: 5 Off-the-Beaten-Path Destinations in China Off-the-Beaten-Path Adventures From the shimmering mountains of the Himalayas to the deserts of Xinjiang, China contains enough surprises to delight even the most seasoned wanderer. Imagine yourself discovering the fabled Tea Horse Road, which connects Southwest China to Bengal, in the company of award-winning explorer Jeff Fuchs, the first westerner to hike the entire route. China has many stunning adventures that will take your breath away. For off-the-beaten-path luxury, experience the Silk Road on our Marco Polo’s Silk Road journey. You can enjoy a private BBQ in the desert (complete with champagne) and at the Mogao Caves in Dunhuang, you can also be led around the medieval Buddhist art by the executive director of the historic site. RELATED READINGS: The China Expert’s Hottest Hotels in China China isn’t all mountain roads and dense forests, it’s also a great place to relax in five-star comfort and indulge in some well-earned pampering. International brands like the Waldorf Astoria, Banyantree, Rosewood, and the Peninsula have made their home in the Middle Kingdom. Home-grown luxury boutique options like the Songtsam Lodges in the mythical Shangri-la Valleys will also show you that ‘luxury’ and ‘comfort’ mean exactly the same here as they do back home. RELATED READING: 6 Signature Dishes of Authentic Chinese Food Michelin Star Cuisine If you’re on the hunt for fine dining, then China has got you covered. The venerable Michelin restaurant guide has just prepared its first China edition. You’ll discover that Chinese food is as rich and varied as the country itself, as you test your endurance with a spicy Sichuanese meal and soothe the soul with a sweet dinner in Shanghai. Thirty of Shanghai’s finest food and beverage hotspots were awarded highly coveted Michelin stars this year, while a further twenty-seven were awarded the Bib Gourmand. In true luxury fashion, you can also explore China’s cuisine with award-winning food writer and Chinese food expert Fuchsia Dunlop on both our Gastronomic Tour of China and Yunnan Gastronomic Tour. RELATED READING: Top 3 Hotels on the Bund Style may not be the first word to spring to mind when you think of China, but major cities like Shanghai and Beijing are certainly mixing glamour into the ancient history of this rapidly changing country. Zipping around in a sidecar around Shanghai’s historic French Concession is a great example of old meets new. And what about sipping martinis at a rooftop bar on the Bund in Shanghai, or visiting Beijing’s clean and crisp Sanlitun district where you’ll find international designers galore. RELATED READING: 5 Reasons to Visit China 5000 Years of History, VIP Style The fact that China is old is, of course, nothing new. Locals will delight in telling you about this country’s five millennia of history and your WildChina guide will be more than happy to translate your questions. Don’t settle for an ordinary China tour, WildChina makes the ancient, must-visit sights in China more luxurious with our signature personalized touches. We’ll greet you with a champagne brunch on the Great Wall near Beijing if you’d like.