ID: a9563946fcfbdc6
Title: Voluntourism: Fostering Sustainable Change in Rural Yunnan
URL: https://wildchina.com/2024/09/voluntourism-in-rural-yunnan/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2024-09-27T19:31:58+08:00
Tags: sustainability, Travel in China, voluntourism, WildChina, Yunnan, Sustainable Travel
================================================================================

In the remote village of Qielongzhong, Yunnan province, the Hani ethnic community faces pressing challenges, including water shortages and the decline of traditional red rice farming due to climate change. To support the local community’s ongoing efforts to preserve their village and traditional ways of life, WildChina has launched a voluntourism trip which focuses on community empowerment and sustainable development. Volunteers and Hani villagers collaborate using traditional tools to process red rice. Led by WildChina’s Head of Corporate Services, MJ Wang, the volunteer travel program (commonly referred to as voluntourism in the industry), is a partnership between WildChina; Chi Fan for Charity, a multi-city annual gala fundraiser; and From Our Eyes Rural Documentary and Culture Research Center, a Yunnan-based social innovation enterprise. The voluntourism trip combines travel with tourism, taking travelers to Qielongzhong village where they engage in hands-on volunteering with the local community as part of their journey. Since the partnership began in 2022, WildChina has run seven voluntourism trips in Qielongzhongzhai, and one of the most meaningful takeaways for us has been the lasting impact they have left — both on the local community and on the travelers who have participated. One volunteer in particular, Jiajia, has continued to stay involved with Qielongzhongzhai by helping to establish the “Red Rice Club,” an initiative that promotes the preservation of traditional rice varieties and raises awareness about the importance of protecting the village’s agricultural heritage. Hani villagers and volunteers come together for a lively bamboo dance, a time-honored tradition in Qielongzhong. Infrastructure improvements are also a critical part of the voluntourism initiative. These improvements range from donations from volunteers, like Dr. Jaclyn Dam Laute, which have helped restore the village’s irrigation system, ensuring the rice terraces remain productive, to partnerships with healthcare organizations, which have brought much-needed medical assistance to the community. There has also been work on establishing a cultural research center dedicated to preserving Hani traditions and creating spaces where visitors can meaningfully engage with the village’s heritage. Volunteers join local villagers in waterlogged rice terraces, working together to preserve traditional farming practices. The Qielongzhong voluntourism initiative is a powerful example of how community-led efforts can drive sustainable change. Recently, this program was highlighted as a case study in a consultation with the Thai government and included by Columbia Global Center in Beijing in its “Fellowship for Change” initiative. It also received recognition at the 2022 China Public Philanthropy and Charity Projects Awards, showcasing how voluntourism can drive long-term, positive impacts on both local communities and global tourism strategies. Hani villagers warmly welcome volunteers to a celebratory long table banquet, extending their generous hospitality after a day of collaboration. WildChina remains committed to offering opportunities for travelers to contribute to the preservation of cultural heritage and local traditions. To learn more or sign up for future voluntourism trips, contact MJ Wang, our project manager. In the remote village of Qielongzhong, Yunnan province, the Hani ethnic community faces pressing challenges, including water shortages and the decline of traditional red rice farming due to climate change. To support the local community’s ongoing efforts to preserve their village and traditional ways of life, WildChina has launched a voluntourism trip which focuses on community empowerment and sustainable development. Volunteers and Hani villagers collaborate using traditional tools to process red rice. Led by WildChina’s Head of Corporate Services, MJ Wang, the volunteer travel program (commonly referred to as voluntourism in the industry), is a partnership between WildChina; Chi Fan for Charity, a multi-city annual gala fundraiser; and From Our Eyes Rural Documentary and Culture Research Center, a Yunnan-based social innovation enterprise. The voluntourism trip combines travel with tourism, taking travelers to Qielongzhong village where they engage in hands-on volunteering with the local community as part of their journey. Since the partnership began in 2022, WildChina has run seven voluntourism trips in Qielongzhongzhai, and one of the most meaningful takeaways for us has been the lasting impact they have left — both on the local community and on the travelers who have participated. One volunteer in particular, Jiajia, has continued to stay involved with Qielongzhongzhai by helping to establish the “Red Rice Club,” an initiative that promotes the preservation of traditional rice varieties and raises awareness about the importance of protecting the village’s agricultural heritage. Hani villagers and volunteers come together for a lively bamboo dance, a time-honored tradition in Qielongzhong. Infrastructure improvements are also a critical part of the voluntourism initiative. These improvements range from donations from volunteers, like Dr. Jaclyn Dam Laute, which have helped restore the village’s irrigation system, ensuring the rice terraces remain productive, to partnerships with healthcare organizations, which have brought much-needed medical assistance to the community. There has also been work on establishing a cultural research center dedicated to preserving Hani traditions and creating spaces where visitors can meaningfully engage with the village’s heritage. Volunteers join local villagers in waterlogged rice terraces, working together to preserve traditional farming practices. The Qielongzhong voluntourism initiative is a powerful example of how community-led efforts can drive sustainable change. Recently, this program was highlighted as a case study in a consultation with the Thai government and included by Columbia Global Center in Beijing in its “Fellowship for Change” initiative. It also received recognition at the 2022 China Public Philanthropy and Charity Projects Awards, showcasing how voluntourism can drive long-term, positive impacts on both local communities and global tourism strategies. Hani villagers warmly welcome volunteers to a celebratory long table banquet, extending their generous hospitality after a day of collaboration. WildChina remains committed to offering opportunities for travelers to contribute to the preservation of cultural heritage and local traditions. To learn more or sign up for future voluntourism trips, contact MJ Wang, our project manager. In the remote village of Qielongzhong, Yunnan province, the Hani ethnic community faces pressing challenges, including water shortages and the decline of traditional red rice farming due to climate change. To support the local community’s ongoing efforts to preserve their village and traditional ways of life, WildChina has launched a voluntourism trip which focuses on community empowerment and sustainable development. Led by WildChina’s Head of Corporate Services, MJ Wang, the volunteer travel program (commonly referred to as voluntourism in the industry), is a partnership between WildChina; Chi Fan for Charity, a multi-city annual gala fundraiser; and From Our Eyes Rural Documentary and Culture Research Center, a Yunnan-based social innovation enterprise. The voluntourism trip combines travel with tourism, taking travelers to Qielongzhong village where they engage in hands-on volunteering with the local community as part of their journey. Since the partnership began in 2022, WildChina has run seven voluntourism trips in Qielongzhongzhai, and one of the most meaningful takeaways for us has been the lasting impact they have left — both on the local community and on the travelers who have participated. One volunteer in particular, Jiajia, has continued to stay involved with Qielongzhongzhai by helping to establish the “Red Rice Club,” an initiative that promotes the preservation of traditional rice varieties and raises awareness about the importance of protecting the village’s agricultural heritage. Infrastructure improvements are also a critical part of the voluntourism initiative. These improvements range from donations from volunteers, like Dr. Jaclyn Dam Laute, which have helped restore the village’s irrigation system, ensuring the rice terraces remain productive, to partnerships with healthcare organizations, which have brought much-needed medical assistance to the community. There has also been work on establishing a cultural research center dedicated to preserving Hani traditions and creating spaces where visitors can meaningfully engage with the village’s heritage. The Qielongzhong voluntourism initiative is a powerful example of how community-led efforts can drive sustainable change. Recently, this program was highlighted as a case study in a consultation with the Thai government and included by Columbia Global Center in Beijing in its “Fellowship for Change” initiative. It also received recognition at the 2022 China Public Philanthropy and Charity Projects Awards, showcasing how voluntourism can drive long-term, positive impacts on both local communities and global tourism strategies. WildChina remains committed to offering opportunities for travelers to contribute to the preservation of cultural heritage and local traditions. To learn more or sign up for future voluntourism trips, contact MJ Wang, our project manager.