ID: ad2f03a7affb58e
Title: Luxury Hotels in Shanghai for 2019 | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2018/11/luxury-hotels-in-shanghai-for-2019/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2018-11-08T10:35:41+08:00
Tags: Shanghai
================================================================================

You’ll often hear us talking about getting off the beaten path, but that doesn’t mean we don’t indulge in luxury – especially when we’re staying in one of China’s megacities. Shanghai stands proud as a cosmopolitan outpost of modern China, home to shining skyscrapers contrasting its rich colonial history. With world-leading hotels now dotted all over town, it’s easy to be spoilt for choice when it comes to picking a place to stay. Here are our favorite luxury accommodation choices for 2019. Photo courtesy of Bvlgari Shanghai RELATED READING: Luxury Travel: 5 Reasons Why China is the Next Hot Destination Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Bvlgari Hotel Opening up two hotels in China in the last year, this lifestyle brand has extended East, bringing with it all of the class and luxury of its Italian origins. Harmoniously blending old and new, Bvlgari incorporates Shanghai’s restored chamber of commerce (dating back to 1916) and a 48-story tower – with roof terraces and sweeping views, of course. Situated a mere stone’s throw away from the historic Bund, sip on a cocktail at La Terrazza whilst you admire the iconic Pudong skyline. STAY FOR: Intimate luxury and sweeping vistas Photo courtesy of The Middle House, Shanghai RELATED READING: Make These “Houses” Your Home in China Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: The Middle House Another recent addition to the Shanghai collection, The Middle House opened its doors earlier in 2018 following the success of its sister hotels in Beijing, Chengdu and Hong Kong. With a superb location in Shanghai’s historic Dazhongli district, The Middle House is quite literally in the middle of the city – a hotspot for shopping, sightseeing, and exploring Shanghai’s rich culinary culture. Once you’ve soaked up as much of the city as your legs can handle, head back and enjoy the Mi Xun spa. STAY FOR: Being in the thick of it and blissful rejuvenation Photo courtesy of Capella Shanghai RELATED READING: Easy Weekend Getaways from Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Capella Shanghai For those of you looking for something a little different on your next trip to the “Paris of the East”, Capella Shanghai might be the answer. Nestled within a cluster of traditional houses in Shanghai’s Xihui district, Capella has transformed a series of Shanghainese shikumen homes into luxury villas and created a boutique hotel like no other. With a distinct Parisian design flair throughout the property, Capella prides itself in protecting the city’s cultural heritage by finding the perfect blend of history and modernity. Legendary French chef Pierre Gagnaire developed the restaurant’s menu and the simple but authentic French cuisine is the best in town. STAY FOR: Stylish interiors and culinary distinction Photo courtesy of Amanyangyun, Shanghai RELATED READING: Get to Know the New Amanyangyun in Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Amanyangyun If you’re looking for the relaxation of a country retreat then look no further than Amanyangyun, Aman’s first Shanghai property. Located approximately an hour’s drive from bustling downtown, Amanyangyun enjoys large open spaces filled with nature. With a layout based on restored Ming and Qing dynasty buildings, the retreat offers an authentic Chinese experience, boasting private courtyards and a forest of camphor trees. Amanyangyun emphasizes its relationship with guests and aims to treat them like old friends – offering complete tranquillity and friendly hospitality you’ll be hard pressed to find elsewhere. STAY FOR: Nature and absolute relaxation Photo courtesy of The Peninsula Shanghai RELATED READING: Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: The Peninsula Shanghai Not a newcomer but a long-time favorite, The Peninsula Shanghai is world renown for unparalleled service and a fine taste for luxury. Being named Shanghai’s Best Hotel in 2017, it’s no surprise that we include The Peninsula on our ‘top hotels in Shanghai’ list every year. The Peninsula boasts two Michelin star-rated restaurants and an indulgent wellness center. The real showstopper, however, has to be Sir Elly’s Terrace, the perfect spot for sundowners with a stunning view over the Shanghai skyline. STAY FOR: Unrivaled excellence and killer views Don’t settle for an ordinary trip on your next visit to Shanghai. Get in touch with our experienced trip designers and start crafting a perfectly personalized experience. You’ll often hear us talking about getting off the beaten path, but that doesn’t mean we don’t indulge in luxury – especially when we’re staying in one of China’s megacities. Shanghai stands proud as a cosmopolitan outpost of modern China, home to shining skyscrapers contrasting its rich colonial history. With world-leading hotels now dotted all over town, it’s easy to be spoilt for choice when it comes to picking a place to stay. Here are our favorite luxury accommodation choices for 2019. Photo courtesy of Bvlgari Shanghai RELATED READING: Luxury Travel: 5 Reasons Why China is the Next Hot Destination Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Bvlgari Hotel Opening up two hotels in China in the last year, this lifestyle brand has extended East, bringing with it all of the class and luxury of its Italian origins. Harmoniously blending old and new, Bvlgari incorporates Shanghai’s restored chamber of commerce (dating back to 1916) and a 48-story tower – with roof terraces and sweeping views, of course. Situated a mere stone’s throw away from the historic Bund, sip on a cocktail at La Terrazza whilst you admire the iconic Pudong skyline. STAY FOR: Intimate luxury and sweeping vistas Photo courtesy of The Middle House, Shanghai RELATED READING: Make These “Houses” Your Home in China Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: The Middle House Another recent addition to the Shanghai collection, The Middle House opened its doors earlier in 2018 following the success of its sister hotels in Beijing, Chengdu and Hong Kong. With a superb location in Shanghai’s historic Dazhongli district, The Middle House is quite literally in the middle of the city – a hotspot for shopping, sightseeing, and exploring Shanghai’s rich culinary culture. Once you’ve soaked up as much of the city as your legs can handle, head back and enjoy the Mi Xun spa. STAY FOR: Being in the thick of it and blissful rejuvenation Photo courtesy of Capella Shanghai RELATED READING: Easy Weekend Getaways from Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Capella Shanghai For those of you looking for something a little different on your next trip to the “Paris of the East”, Capella Shanghai might be the answer. Nestled within a cluster of traditional houses in Shanghai’s Xihui district, Capella has transformed a series of Shanghainese shikumen homes into luxury villas and created a boutique hotel like no other. With a distinct Parisian design flair throughout the property, Capella prides itself in protecting the city’s cultural heritage by finding the perfect blend of history and modernity. Legendary French chef Pierre Gagnaire developed the restaurant’s menu and the simple but authentic French cuisine is the best in town. STAY FOR: Stylish interiors and culinary distinction Photo courtesy of Amanyangyun, Shanghai RELATED READING: Get to Know the New Amanyangyun in Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Amanyangyun If you’re looking for the relaxation of a country retreat then look no further than Amanyangyun, Aman’s first Shanghai property. Located approximately an hour’s drive from bustling downtown, Amanyangyun enjoys large open spaces filled with nature. With a layout based on restored Ming and Qing dynasty buildings, the retreat offers an authentic Chinese experience, boasting private courtyards and a forest of camphor trees. Amanyangyun emphasizes its relationship with guests and aims to treat them like old friends – offering complete tranquillity and friendly hospitality you’ll be hard pressed to find elsewhere. STAY FOR: Nature and absolute relaxation Photo courtesy of The Peninsula Shanghai RELATED READING: Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: The Peninsula Shanghai Not a newcomer but a long-time favorite, The Peninsula Shanghai is world renown for unparalleled service and a fine taste for luxury. Being named Shanghai’s Best Hotel in 2017, it’s no surprise that we include The Peninsula on our ‘top hotels in Shanghai’ list every year. The Peninsula boasts two Michelin star-rated restaurants and an indulgent wellness center. The real showstopper, however, has to be Sir Elly’s Terrace, the perfect spot for sundowners with a stunning view over the Shanghai skyline. STAY FOR: Unrivaled excellence and killer views Don’t settle for an ordinary trip on your next visit to Shanghai. Get in touch with our experienced trip designers and start crafting a perfectly personalized experience. You’ll often hear us talking about getting off the beaten path, but that doesn’t mean we don’t indulge in luxury – especially when we’re staying in one of China’s megacities. Shanghai stands proud as a cosmopolitan outpost of modern China, home to shining skyscrapers contrasting its rich colonial history. With world-leading hotels now dotted all over town, it’s easy to be spoilt for choice when it comes to picking a place to stay. Here are our favorite luxury accommodation choices for 2019. Photo courtesy of Bvlgari Shanghai RELATED READING: Luxury Travel: 5 Reasons Why China is the Next Hot Destination Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Bvlgari Hotel Opening up two hotels in China in the last year, this lifestyle brand has extended East, bringing with it all of the class and luxury of its Italian origins. Harmoniously blending old and new, Bvlgari incorporates Shanghai’s restored chamber of commerce (dating back to 1916) and a 48-story tower – with roof terraces and sweeping views, of course. Situated a mere stone’s throw away from the historic Bund, sip on a cocktail at La Terrazza whilst you admire the iconic Pudong skyline. STAY FOR: Intimate luxury and sweeping vistas Photo courtesy of The Middle House, Shanghai RELATED READING: Make These “Houses” Your Home in China Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: The Middle House Another recent addition to the Shanghai collection, The Middle House opened its doors earlier in 2018 following the success of its sister hotels in Beijing, Chengdu and Hong Kong. With a superb location in Shanghai’s historic Dazhongli district, The Middle House is quite literally in the middle of the city – a hotspot for shopping, sightseeing, and exploring Shanghai’s rich culinary culture. Once you’ve soaked up as much of the city as your legs can handle, head back and enjoy the Mi Xun spa. STAY FOR: Being in the thick of it and blissful rejuvenation Photo courtesy of Capella Shanghai RELATED READING: Easy Weekend Getaways from Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Capella Shanghai For those of you looking for something a little different on your next trip to the “Paris of the East”, Capella Shanghai might be the answer. Nestled within a cluster of traditional houses in Shanghai’s Xihui district, Capella has transformed a series of Shanghainese shikumen homes into luxury villas and created a boutique hotel like no other. With a distinct Parisian design flair throughout the property, Capella prides itself in protecting the city’s cultural heritage by finding the perfect blend of history and modernity. Legendary French chef Pierre Gagnaire developed the restaurant’s menu and the simple but authentic French cuisine is the best in town. STAY FOR: Stylish interiors and culinary distinction Photo courtesy of Amanyangyun, Shanghai RELATED READING: Get to Know the New Amanyangyun in Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: Amanyangyun If you’re looking for the relaxation of a country retreat then look no further than Amanyangyun, Aman’s first Shanghai property. Located approximately an hour’s drive from bustling downtown, Amanyangyun enjoys large open spaces filled with nature. With a layout based on restored Ming and Qing dynasty buildings, the retreat offers an authentic Chinese experience, boasting private courtyards and a forest of camphor trees. Amanyangyun emphasizes its relationship with guests and aims to treat them like old friends – offering complete tranquillity and friendly hospitality you’ll be hard pressed to find elsewhere. STAY FOR: Nature and absolute relaxation Photo courtesy of The Peninsula Shanghai RELATED READING: Best Upscale Restaurants in Shanghai Luxury Hotels in Shanghai: The Peninsula Shanghai Not a newcomer but a long-time favorite, The Peninsula Shanghai is world renown for unparalleled service and a fine taste for luxury. Being named Shanghai’s Best Hotel in 2017, it’s no surprise that we include The Peninsula on our ‘top hotels in Shanghai’ list every year. The Peninsula boasts two Michelin star-rated restaurants and an indulgent wellness center. The real showstopper, however, has to be Sir Elly’s Terrace, the perfect spot for sundowners with a stunning view over the Shanghai skyline. STAY FOR: Unrivaled excellence and killer views Don’t settle for an ordinary trip on your next visit to Shanghai. Get in touch with our experienced trip designers and start crafting a perfectly personalized experience.