ID: 6414b34f5420f6e2
Title: New Bulgari Hotel Beijing is a Multi-Sensory Experience
URL: https://wildchina.com/2017/10/bulgari-hotel-beijing/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2017-10-13T10:51:58+08:00
Tags: Editor's Pick
================================================================================

As the luxury Bulgari brand open the doors of its latest upscale hotel right here in Beijing, the WildChina team was given an exclusive sneak preview as to what future guests can expect, and look forward to, in true Bulgari fashion of elegance and sophistication. We’re always on the hunt for the most luxurious hotels for our guests. Here is everything you need to know about the latest addition to our list of preferred partners. Featuring a great location- just half an hour drive from Beijing Capital International Airport, and a meticulously thought out hotel experience to match, the Bulgari Hotel Beijing is sure to please the growing number of international travelers to the city. Based upon the theme of nature and art, elements the hotel has drawn upon from its surroundings, the brand has created a plush home away from home that will be certain to play on all of the senses. See RELATED READING: Where to Visit in China in Winter Situated along the banks of the Liangma River and right in the heart of Beijing’s embassy territory, the Bulgari Hotel Beijing has effectively used bamboo and wooden partitions to create a retreat in the middle of this sprawling metropolis. Take the elevator up to the rooms and be greeted by stunning views over the river and the impressive skyline of cosmopolitan Beijing. If the hotel’s beautifully designed interiors (by Italian architectural firm Antonio Citterio Patricia Viel) excite your senses, then continue your artistic appreciation next door at the adjoining museum, or venture out to experience some of the eclectic art Beijing has to offer in nearby neighborhoods. Hear RELATED READING: Beijing by Bike – One Wild Ride To complement its seamlessly elegant interiors, the hotel’s soundtrack has also been carefully selected to ooze that Bulgari brand feel. Relaxed and modern jazz sounds can be heard as you recline by the 25m emerald-green pool or while treating yourself to a soothing spa day. The Bulgari Hotel has successfully created a haven, offering treatments blended with traditional Chinese techniques. You’ll have no problems switching off from the hubbub outside. Taste and Smell RELATED READING: How to Spend 72 Hours or Less in Beijing As you meander down corridors, nostrils thick with the scent of fine Italian leather, find yourself drawn to the hotel restaurant and bar where aromas of fresh and impassioned Italian dishes will be taking over as principal character. Aptly named, ‘Il Ristorante’, this one and only restaurant on site is set to tantalize taste buds with a menu delicately put together by Italian three-Michelin-starred chef Niko Romito. Dishes focus on simplistic, yet wholly flavorful Italian cuisine. Enjoy this culinary experience comfortably seated in large brown-leathered booths, underneath contemporary and stylish chandeliers. Continue this tasteful Italian encounter with the Bulgari brand by heading over to ‘Il Bar’, and appreciate the signature ‘Aperitivo’ made by mixologist Darius. Or on the other hand, if what you’re after is more of a quiet tipple, then take pleasure in an exquisite cocktail or digestif from the very comfort of your own suite, with a fully stocked complimentary bar. Feel RELATED READING: Everything You Can Do at Beijing’s Temple of Heaven Feel the burn as you push your body to new and rewarding extremes at Bulgari’s world-class partner Workshop Gymnasium. With expert instructors and professional equipment, taking your body to new levels is no longer a chore but a challenge to relish. As with Yin and Yang, a fundamental component of Chinese philosophy, there must always be a balance, so feel your body unwind as you conclude your gym session down in the Bulgari Spa. Set over two floors and offering up an abundance of soothing options, this spa is a must-try. It may just be a challenge to tear yourself away when it is time to leave. When you stay at the new Beijing location, you’ll also enjoy the added feeling of space (an element not so plentiful in the London or Milan locations). With this added space, the hotel has created terraces leading out from both the hotel restaurant and bar. They’ve also unveiled ‘Terrace Suites’, which boast large and tastefully decorated outdoor areas. Experience RELATED READING: How to Make the Most of a Trip to the Great Wall Upon arrival at the Bulgari Hotel Beijing, it is clear how every sense has been harmoniously thought of in order to create the ultimate guest experience; the experience of not just staying in a five-star hotel but experiencing the Bulgari Lifestyle. This is a lifestyle that exudes contemporary elegance. No matter where you are in the world, you can expect the same luxurious standards and subtly warm service that one has come to think of with regards to the Bulgari name. You may not have thought it possible, but make your journey with WildChina even more luxurious by selecting to stay at the Bulgari Hotel Beijing during your visit to this country’s exciting capital city. After lavish days partaking in a champagne brunch on the Great Wall and enjoying exclusive access at the Forbidden City with your WildChina guide, this will be the perfect retreat to pass away the evening in style. As the luxury Bulgari brand open the doors of its latest upscale hotel right here in Beijing, the WildChina team was given an exclusive sneak preview as to what future guests can expect, and look forward to, in true Bulgari fashion of elegance and sophistication. We’re always on the hunt for the most luxurious hotels for our guests. Here is everything you need to know about the latest addition to our list of preferred partners. Featuring a great location- just half an hour drive from Beijing Capital International Airport, and a meticulously thought out hotel experience to match, the Bulgari Hotel Beijing is sure to please the growing number of international travelers to the city. Based upon the theme of nature and art, elements the hotel has drawn upon from its surroundings, the brand has created a plush home away from home that will be certain to play on all of the senses. See RELATED READING: Where to Visit in China in Winter Situated along the banks of the Liangma River and right in the heart of Beijing’s embassy territory, the Bulgari Hotel Beijing has effectively used bamboo and wooden partitions to create a retreat in the middle of this sprawling metropolis. Take the elevator up to the rooms and be greeted by stunning views over the river and the impressive skyline of cosmopolitan Beijing. If the hotel’s beautifully designed interiors (by Italian architectural firm Antonio Citterio Patricia Viel) excite your senses, then continue your artistic appreciation next door at the adjoining museum, or venture out to experience some of the eclectic art Beijing has to offer in nearby neighborhoods. Hear RELATED READING: Beijing by Bike – One Wild Ride To complement its seamlessly elegant interiors, the hotel’s soundtrack has also been carefully selected to ooze that Bulgari brand feel. Relaxed and modern jazz sounds can be heard as you recline by the 25m emerald-green pool or while treating yourself to a soothing spa day. The Bulgari Hotel has successfully created a haven, offering treatments blended with traditional Chinese techniques. You’ll have no problems switching off from the hubbub outside. Taste and Smell RELATED READING: How to Spend 72 Hours or Less in Beijing As you meander down corridors, nostrils thick with the scent of fine Italian leather, find yourself drawn to the hotel restaurant and bar where aromas of fresh and impassioned Italian dishes will be taking over as principal character. Aptly named, ‘Il Ristorante’, this one and only restaurant on site is set to tantalize taste buds with a menu delicately put together by Italian three-Michelin-starred chef Niko Romito. Dishes focus on simplistic, yet wholly flavorful Italian cuisine. Enjoy this culinary experience comfortably seated in large brown-leathered booths, underneath contemporary and stylish chandeliers. Continue this tasteful Italian encounter with the Bulgari brand by heading over to ‘Il Bar’, and appreciate the signature ‘Aperitivo’ made by mixologist Darius. Or on the other hand, if what you’re after is more of a quiet tipple, then take pleasure in an exquisite cocktail or digestif from the very comfort of your own suite, with a fully stocked complimentary bar. Feel RELATED READING: Everything You Can Do at Beijing’s Temple of Heaven Feel the burn as you push your body to new and rewarding extremes at Bulgari’s world-class partner Workshop Gymnasium. With expert instructors and professional equipment, taking your body to new levels is no longer a chore but a challenge to relish. As with Yin and Yang, a fundamental component of Chinese philosophy, there must always be a balance, so feel your body unwind as you conclude your gym session down in the Bulgari Spa. Set over two floors and offering up an abundance of soothing options, this spa is a must-try. It may just be a challenge to tear yourself away when it is time to leave. When you stay at the new Beijing location, you’ll also enjoy the added feeling of space (an element not so plentiful in the London or Milan locations). With this added space, the hotel has created terraces leading out from both the hotel restaurant and bar. They’ve also unveiled ‘Terrace Suites’, which boast large and tastefully decorated outdoor areas. Experience RELATED READING: How to Make the Most of a Trip to the Great Wall Upon arrival at the Bulgari Hotel Beijing, it is clear how every sense has been harmoniously thought of in order to create the ultimate guest experience; the experience of not just staying in a five-star hotel but experiencing the Bulgari Lifestyle. This is a lifestyle that exudes contemporary elegance. No matter where you are in the world, you can expect the same luxurious standards and subtly warm service that one has come to think of with regards to the Bulgari name. You may not have thought it possible, but make your journey with WildChina even more luxurious by selecting to stay at the Bulgari Hotel Beijing during your visit to this country’s exciting capital city. After lavish days partaking in a champagne brunch on the Great Wall and enjoying exclusive access at the Forbidden City with your WildChina guide, this will be the perfect retreat to pass away the evening in style. As the luxury Bulgari brand open the doors of its latest upscale hotel right here in Beijing, the WildChina team was given an exclusive sneak preview as to what future guests can expect, and look forward to, in true Bulgari fashion of elegance and sophistication. We’re always on the hunt for the most luxurious hotels for our guests. Here is everything you need to know about the latest addition to our list of preferred partners. Featuring a great location- just half an hour drive from Beijing Capital International Airport, and a meticulously thought out hotel experience to match, the Bulgari Hotel Beijing is sure to please the growing number of international travelers to the city. Based upon the theme of nature and art, elements the hotel has drawn upon from its surroundings, the brand has created a plush home away from home that will be certain to play on all of the senses. RELATED READING: Where to Visit in China in Winter Situated along the banks of the Liangma River and right in the heart of Beijing’s embassy territory, the Bulgari Hotel Beijing has effectively used bamboo and wooden partitions to create a retreat in the middle of this sprawling metropolis. Take the elevator up to the rooms and be greeted by stunning views over the river and the impressive skyline of cosmopolitan Beijing. If the hotel’s beautifully designed interiors (by Italian architectural firm Antonio Citterio Patricia Viel) excite your senses, then continue your artistic appreciation next door at the adjoining museum, or venture out to experience some of the eclectic art Beijing has to offer in nearby neighborhoods. RELATED READING: Beijing by Bike – One Wild Ride To complement its seamlessly elegant interiors, the hotel’s soundtrack has also been carefully selected to ooze that Bulgari brand feel. Relaxed and modern jazz sounds can be heard as you recline by the 25m emerald-green pool or while treating yourself to a soothing spa day. The Bulgari Hotel has successfully created a haven, offering treatments blended with traditional Chinese techniques. You’ll have no problems switching off from the hubbub outside. RELATED READING: How to Spend 72 Hours or Less in Beijing As you meander down corridors, nostrils thick with the scent of fine Italian leather, find yourself drawn to the hotel restaurant and bar where aromas of fresh and impassioned Italian dishes will be taking over as principal character. Aptly named, ‘Il Ristorante’, this one and only restaurant on site is set to tantalize taste buds with a menu delicately put together by Italian three-Michelin-starred chef Niko Romito. Dishes focus on simplistic, yet wholly flavorful Italian cuisine. Enjoy this culinary experience comfortably seated in large brown-leathered booths, underneath contemporary and stylish chandeliers. Continue this tasteful Italian encounter with the Bulgari brand by heading over to ‘Il Bar’, and appreciate the signature ‘Aperitivo’ made by mixologist Darius. Or on the other hand, if what you’re after is more of a quiet tipple, then take pleasure in an exquisite cocktail or digestif from the very comfort of your own suite, with a fully stocked complimentary bar. RELATED READING: Everything You Can Do at Beijing’s Temple of Heaven Feel the burn as you push your body to new and rewarding extremes at Bulgari’s world-class partner Workshop Gymnasium. With expert instructors and professional equipment, taking your body to new levels is no longer a chore but a challenge to relish. As with Yin and Yang, a fundamental component of Chinese philosophy, there must always be a balance, so feel your body unwind as you conclude your gym session down in the Bulgari Spa. Set over two floors and offering up an abundance of soothing options, this spa is a must-try. It may just be a challenge to tear yourself away when it is time to leave. When you stay at the new Beijing location, you’ll also enjoy the added feeling of space (an element not so plentiful in the London or Milan locations). With this added space, the hotel has created terraces leading out from both the hotel restaurant and bar. They’ve also unveiled ‘Terrace Suites’, which boast large and tastefully decorated outdoor areas. RELATED READING: How to Make the Most of a Trip to the Great Wall Upon arrival at the Bulgari Hotel Beijing, it is clear how every sense has been harmoniously thought of in order to create the ultimate guest experience; the experience of not just staying in a five-star hotel but experiencing the Bulgari Lifestyle. This is a lifestyle that exudes contemporary elegance. No matter where you are in the world, you can expect the same luxurious standards and subtly warm service that one has come to think of with regards to the Bulgari name. You may not have thought it possible, but make your journey with WildChina even more luxurious by selecting to stay at the Bulgari Hotel Beijing during your visit to this country’s exciting capital city. After lavish days partaking in a champagne brunch on the Great Wall and enjoying exclusive access at the Forbidden City with your WildChina guide, this will be the perfect retreat to pass away the evening in style.