ID: 66c67e4107f46aec
Title: 144 Hours of Visa-Free Travel in Beijing | WildChina Blog
URL: https://wildchina.com/2018/02/visa-free-travel-in-beijing/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2018-02-23T15:04:40+08:00
Tags: Beijing
================================================================================

Adventurous travelers, curious to see China but chasing the clock, now have an enticing new option – 144 hours of visa-free travel in Beijing and neighboring Hebei Province. The visa-free system has many guidelines, but in general the rule is as follows: If you have a layover in Beijing, Tianjin, or Hebei, you’re allowed to travel within this area for 6 days without a visa. To qualify for visa exemption, you must be in transit from the point of origin to another country besides China. In other words, it must be a layover and you have to have the documents to prove your onward travel. RELATED READING: How to Spend 72 Hours or Less in Beijing So, now the Chinese Government has taken the stress out of getting a visa, why not let WildChina take the stress out of your trip. Arrange your Beijing tour with one of our experienced trip designers and all you’ll have to do is look for your WildChina guide in the airport arrival hall – we’ll have taken care of the rest. We’ll provide a VIP pick-up service from the airport and will have booked you into one of Beijing’s most luxurious hotels. Your local WildChina guide will then take you on a voyage of a lifetime in a cushy 144 hours. All WildChina guides are local experts who know the city, its people, and its sights like the back of their hand. Here’s are just a few of the experiences we could arrange for your visa free trip in Beijing: Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Peking Duck RELATED READING: 5 Reasons to Visit China After your flight, why not begin your Beijing journey in style and sample the city’s famous duck dish. There are dozens of options for indulging in Peking duck, and one of our favorites is Dadong Roast Duck. Dadong’s signature roast duck is roasted to a perfectly crispy skin. Guests can pair it with condiments like caviar and sugar for a twist on a time-honored dish. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Local Hutong Neighborhoods RELATED READING: 5 (Alternative) Must-sees in Beijing After enjoying lunch in one of the city’s upscale neighborhoods, it’s time to come back down to earth and visit the local hutong neighborhoods – where Old Beijing culture still thrives. In these courtyard homes, WildChina can arrange for you to meet people whose families have been living there for centuries. You’ll join a calligraphy master for a private lesson and have an energetic encounter with a 70-year-old cricket fighter. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – 798 Art District After your hutong tour, your personal driver can take you to 798, a locale displaying all manner of art, from art-deco films and murals to sculptures and friendly street artists. WildChina works with a contemporary art expert who is an insider among gallery owners. She can show you the best of what 798 has to offer. We encourage you to wander among the small side streets, all packed with artistic odds and ends for any type of art enthusiast. Bring some small gifts home for friends and family, supporting local artists and keeping your carry-on luggage below the weight limit at the same time. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Great Wall RELATED READING: How to Make the Most of a Trip to the Great Wall On day two, take a tour to the Great Wall. Visiting a rural section of the Great Wall offers views typically uncompromised by massive crowds, though if you travel with WildChina, you’ll be in luck on any section of the famous architectural marvel. Take your time walking up its famed, and at places crumbling, steps, and take solace in the fact that you have the option of sliding your way down. That’s right, the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall offers a toboggan for the weary masses who prefer a fast and fun way to return to normal elevation. To make your visit to the Great Wall truly special, we can arrange activities such as a private champagne picnic, helicopter ride, or a tour with William Lindesay – the leading expert on Great Wall conservation. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Imperial History RELATED READING: Everything You Can Do at Beijing’s Temple of Heaven Beyond the Great Wall, Beijing is home to a vast array of buildings that evoke the imperial history of the city. The chief among these sights is the Forbidden City, the official abode of the emperor. The Temple of Heaven and the Summer Palace are also impressive in their own right. We will arrange for you to take a tai chi class at the Temple of Heaven and relax at an afternoon tea at the Aman Summer Palace. As with most new places, it’s best to see them with and through the eyes of a local, like a WildChina guide. Take the stress out of your visa-free stay and make the most of your time by customizing your perfect tour with WildChina. Adventurous travelers, curious to see China but chasing the clock, now have an enticing new option – 144 hours of visa-free travel in Beijing and neighboring Hebei Province. The visa-free system has many guidelines, but in general the rule is as follows: If you have a layover in Beijing, Tianjin, or Hebei, you’re allowed to travel within this area for 6 days without a visa. To qualify for visa exemption, you must be in transit from the point of origin to another country besides China. In other words, it must be a layover and you have to have the documents to prove your onward travel. RELATED READING: How to Spend 72 Hours or Less in Beijing So, now the Chinese Government has taken the stress out of getting a visa, why not let WildChina take the stress out of your trip. Arrange your Beijing tour with one of our experienced trip designers and all you’ll have to do is look for your WildChina guide in the airport arrival hall – we’ll have taken care of the rest. We’ll provide a VIP pick-up service from the airport and will have booked you into one of Beijing’s most luxurious hotels. Your local WildChina guide will then take you on a voyage of a lifetime in a cushy 144 hours. All WildChina guides are local experts who know the city, its people, and its sights like the back of their hand. Here’s are just a few of the experiences we could arrange for your visa free trip in Beijing: Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Peking Duck RELATED READING: 5 Reasons to Visit China After your flight, why not begin your Beijing journey in style and sample the city’s famous duck dish. There are dozens of options for indulging in Peking duck, and one of our favorites is Dadong Roast Duck. Dadong’s signature roast duck is roasted to a perfectly crispy skin. Guests can pair it with condiments like caviar and sugar for a twist on a time-honored dish. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Local Hutong Neighborhoods RELATED READING: 5 (Alternative) Must-sees in Beijing After enjoying lunch in one of the city’s upscale neighborhoods, it’s time to come back down to earth and visit the local hutong neighborhoods – where Old Beijing culture still thrives. In these courtyard homes, WildChina can arrange for you to meet people whose families have been living there for centuries. You’ll join a calligraphy master for a private lesson and have an energetic encounter with a 70-year-old cricket fighter. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – 798 Art District After your hutong tour, your personal driver can take you to 798, a locale displaying all manner of art, from art-deco films and murals to sculptures and friendly street artists. WildChina works with a contemporary art expert who is an insider among gallery owners. She can show you the best of what 798 has to offer. We encourage you to wander among the small side streets, all packed with artistic odds and ends for any type of art enthusiast. Bring some small gifts home for friends and family, supporting local artists and keeping your carry-on luggage below the weight limit at the same time. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Great Wall RELATED READING: How to Make the Most of a Trip to the Great Wall On day two, take a tour to the Great Wall. Visiting a rural section of the Great Wall offers views typically uncompromised by massive crowds, though if you travel with WildChina, you’ll be in luck on any section of the famous architectural marvel. Take your time walking up its famed, and at places crumbling, steps, and take solace in the fact that you have the option of sliding your way down. That’s right, the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall offers a toboggan for the weary masses who prefer a fast and fun way to return to normal elevation. To make your visit to the Great Wall truly special, we can arrange activities such as a private champagne picnic, helicopter ride, or a tour with William Lindesay – the leading expert on Great Wall conservation. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Imperial History RELATED READING: Everything You Can Do at Beijing’s Temple of Heaven Beyond the Great Wall, Beijing is home to a vast array of buildings that evoke the imperial history of the city. The chief among these sights is the Forbidden City, the official abode of the emperor. The Temple of Heaven and the Summer Palace are also impressive in their own right. We will arrange for you to take a tai chi class at the Temple of Heaven and relax at an afternoon tea at the Aman Summer Palace. As with most new places, it’s best to see them with and through the eyes of a local, like a WildChina guide. Take the stress out of your visa-free stay and make the most of your time by customizing your perfect tour with WildChina. Adventurous travelers, curious to see China but chasing the clock, now have an enticing new option – 144 hours of visa-free travel in Beijing and neighboring Hebei Province. The visa-free system has many guidelines, but in general the rule is as follows: If you have a layover in Beijing, Tianjin, or Hebei, you’re allowed to travel within this area for 6 days without a visa. To qualify for visa exemption, you must be in transit from the point of origin to another country besides China. In other words, it must be a layover and you have to have the documents to prove your onward travel. RELATED READING: How to Spend 72 Hours or Less in Beijing So, now the Chinese Government has taken the stress out of getting a visa, why not let WildChina take the stress out of your trip. Arrange your Beijing tour with one of our experienced trip designers and all you’ll have to do is look for your WildChina guide in the airport arrival hall – we’ll have taken care of the rest. We’ll provide a VIP pick-up service from the airport and will have booked you into one of Beijing’s most luxurious hotels. Your local WildChina guide will then take you on a voyage of a lifetime in a cushy 144 hours. All WildChina guides are local experts who know the city, its people, and its sights like the back of their hand. Here’s are just a few of the experiences we could arrange for your visa free trip in Beijing: Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Peking Duck RELATED READING: 5 Reasons to Visit China After your flight, why not begin your Beijing journey in style and sample the city’s famous duck dish. There are dozens of options for indulging in Peking duck, and one of our favorites is Dadong Roast Duck. Dadong’s signature roast duck is roasted to a perfectly crispy skin. Guests can pair it with condiments like caviar and sugar for a twist on a time-honored dish. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Local Hutong Neighborhoods RELATED READING: 5 (Alternative) Must-sees in Beijing After enjoying lunch in one of the city’s upscale neighborhoods, it’s time to come back down to earth and visit the local hutong neighborhoods – where Old Beijing culture still thrives. In these courtyard homes, WildChina can arrange for you to meet people whose families have been living there for centuries. You’ll join a calligraphy master for a private lesson and have an energetic encounter with a 70-year-old cricket fighter. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – 798 Art District After your hutong tour, your personal driver can take you to 798, a locale displaying all manner of art, from art-deco films and murals to sculptures and friendly street artists. WildChina works with a contemporary art expert who is an insider among gallery owners. She can show you the best of what 798 has to offer. We encourage you to wander among the small side streets, all packed with artistic odds and ends for any type of art enthusiast. Bring some small gifts home for friends and family, supporting local artists and keeping your carry-on luggage below the weight limit at the same time. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Great Wall RELATED READING: How to Make the Most of a Trip to the Great Wall On day two, take a tour to the Great Wall. Visiting a rural section of the Great Wall offers views typically uncompromised by massive crowds, though if you travel with WildChina, you’ll be in luck on any section of the famous architectural marvel. Take your time walking up its famed, and at places crumbling, steps, and take solace in the fact that you have the option of sliding your way down. That’s right, the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall offers a toboggan for the weary masses who prefer a fast and fun way to return to normal elevation. To make your visit to the Great Wall truly special, we can arrange activities such as a private champagne picnic, helicopter ride, or a tour with William Lindesay – the leading expert on Great Wall conservation. Visa Free Travel in Beijing – Imperial History RELATED READING: Everything You Can Do at Beijing’s Temple of Heaven Beyond the Great Wall, Beijing is home to a vast array of buildings that evoke the imperial history of the city. The chief among these sights is the Forbidden City, the official abode of the emperor. The Temple of Heaven and the Summer Palace are also impressive in their own right. We will arrange for you to take a tai chi class at the Temple of Heaven and relax at an afternoon tea at the Aman Summer Palace. As with most new places, it’s best to see them with and through the eyes of a local, like a WildChina guide. Take the stress out of your visa-free stay and make the most of your time by customizing your perfect tour with WildChina.