ID: 5674918cdee5739d
Title: Studying Abroad in China is Now a Zinch | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2011/06/studying-abroad-in-china-is-now-a-zinch/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2011-06-13T12:36:07+08:00
Tags: wild China, WildChina, WildChina Travel
================================================================================

The following is a press release from Zinch.com. WildChina supports this effort by offering travel advice and insights on educational travel in China. To view more articles on this topic, please visit our Zinch profile at http://www.zinch.com/wildchina.travel. ——– Zinch.com officially launches “Zinch Study in China” in support of President Obama’s “100,000 Strong Initiative” SAN FRANCISCO, CA (May 10, 2011) – Zinch.com, the online social network that connects students with opportunities, today launched a web site for Americans interested in studying in China. Announced in conjunction with the China-US Strategic & Economic Dialogue this week in Washington, DC, the site (called “Zinch Study in China” and located athttp://www.zinch.com/studyinchina) is a free, interactive community that connects American students interested in learning Chinese with China-based language programs, recent alumni of these programs, and experts on studying Chinese and living in China. Built and operated without government funding, the site is an example of the public-private partnerships that support President Obama’s “100,000 Strong Initiative”, which aims to bring more American students to China. “When I first came to China in 1982, I had to figure out everything myself,” said Tom Melcher, VP of Global Development at Zinch. “Our goal for Zinch Study in China is to make it easier for American students to find the best-fit program, and to get reliable answers – from peers and experts — to their questions about studying in China. We’re honored by the opportunity to support President Obama’s 100,000 Strong Initiative, which is vital to the long-term health of the US-China strategic relationship.” Carola McGiffert, Director of the 100,000 Strong Initiative at the US Department of State, noted: “We are grateful to Zinch China for its generous support of the 100,000 Strong Initiative through the creation of an independent website for Americans looking to study in China. The ‘Zinch Study in China’ site will facilitate the 100,000 Strong Initiative’s goal of enhancing the people-to-people interactions necessary for increasing Americans’ understanding of China and building the next generation of American experts on China.” On many US college campuses, Chinese is now one of the most popular foreign languages to study. Many students would like to spend a summer or semester in China honing their language skills and gaining valuable cross-cultural experience. Unfortunately, it is hard to get reliable information about the many available China programs, which makes it challenging to decide where to study and how to get the most out of the experience. Information on studying in China that is currently offered at universities or online is diffuse and no website has yet offered independent reviews of China programs. Zinch Study in China solves this problem by providing a one-stop online destination of reliable, comprehensive information about studying in China, including peer reviews: At launch, the site includes profiles of more than 25 major programs, including those offered by Harvard, Princeton, Berkeley, Duke, Tsinghua University, and Peking University. Programs offered by CET Academic Programs, the Council on International Education Exchange (CIEE), the Taipei Language Institute (TLI) and the Alliance for Global Education are also included. More programs are listed every week. Each program has independent reviews from recent student alumni, who share their personal opinions about the program. This type of “people-to-people” exchange of information is especially valuable when trying to decide which program is the best fit. These alumni reviewers can also be contacted online with follow-up questions. The site also features expert advice about choosing the best Chinese language program. Initial contributors include Dr. Tom Gold of the University of California – Berkeley, Professor Lung-Hua Hu of Brown University, Dr. Charles Laughlin of the University of Virginia, Dr. Marvin Ho, Founder of the Taipei Language Institute, and Ms. Corinne Dillon, founder of Discover Mandarin. For more detailed information and application information, the site links directly to each program website, as well as to the program’s listing on IIEPassport.com, which is operated jointly by the Institute of International Education (IIE) and Education Dynamics. In addition, Zinch Study in China features comprehensive advice about preparing to go to China, and how to make the most of time spent studying there. At launch, the following organizations are providing expert commentary, and are available to answer follow-up questions online: Health care issues are addressed by United Family Hospitals, the leading health care provider for expats in China. Options to travel within China are addressed by WildChina and the China Culture Center. Internship & volunteer opportunities are described by NorCap China Internships, Red Collars and Teach for China. More organizations and expert commentators will be added continuously. There is no charge for participating. Interested programs and experts should contact Zinch directly. ———- Notes to the Editor: About the 100,000 Strong Initiative (from State department’s website): Citing the strategic importance of the U.S.-China relationship, in November 2009, President Barack Obama announced the 100,000 Strong Initiative, a national effort designed to increase dramatically the number and to diversify the composition of American students studying in China. More information about the initiative can be found at: www.state.gov/100000strong About Zinch: Founded in 2007 to put prospective college students in direct contact with college admissions officers, Zinch has more than 3,000,000 registered users in the United States alone. In 2010, the company entered the Chinese market in an effort to reduce the information gap between Chinese students and American universities. Several members of Zinch’s management team are fluent in Mandarin and have spent significant time in Greater China. For more information, please go to: www.zinch.com or contact Sid Krommenhoek, Zinch Co-Founder, at sid@zinch.com or 801-616-2715. The following is a press release from Zinch.com. WildChina supports this effort by offering travel advice and insights on educational travel in China. To view more articles on this topic, please visit our Zinch profile at http://www.zinch.com/wildchina.travel. ——– Zinch.com officially launches “Zinch Study in China” in support of President Obama’s “100,000 Strong Initiative” SAN FRANCISCO, CA (May 10, 2011) – Zinch.com, the online social network that connects students with opportunities, today launched a web site for Americans interested in studying in China. Announced in conjunction with the China-US Strategic & Economic Dialogue this week in Washington, DC, the site (called “Zinch Study in China” and located athttp://www.zinch.com/studyinchina) is a free, interactive community that connects American students interested in learning Chinese with China-based language programs, recent alumni of these programs, and experts on studying Chinese and living in China. Built and operated without government funding, the site is an example of the public-private partnerships that support President Obama’s “100,000 Strong Initiative”, which aims to bring more American students to China. “When I first came to China in 1982, I had to figure out everything myself,” said Tom Melcher, VP of Global Development at Zinch. “Our goal for Zinch Study in China is to make it easier for American students to find the best-fit program, and to get reliable answers – from peers and experts — to their questions about studying in China. We’re honored by the opportunity to support President Obama’s 100,000 Strong Initiative, which is vital to the long-term health of the US-China strategic relationship.” Carola McGiffert, Director of the 100,000 Strong Initiative at the US Department of State, noted: “We are grateful to Zinch China for its generous support of the 100,000 Strong Initiative through the creation of an independent website for Americans looking to study in China. The ‘Zinch Study in China’ site will facilitate the 100,000 Strong Initiative’s goal of enhancing the people-to-people interactions necessary for increasing Americans’ understanding of China and building the next generation of American experts on China.” On many US college campuses, Chinese is now one of the most popular foreign languages to study. Many students would like to spend a summer or semester in China honing their language skills and gaining valuable cross-cultural experience. Unfortunately, it is hard to get reliable information about the many available China programs, which makes it challenging to decide where to study and how to get the most out of the experience. Information on studying in China that is currently offered at universities or online is diffuse and no website has yet offered independent reviews of China programs. Zinch Study in China solves this problem by providing a one-stop online destination of reliable, comprehensive information about studying in China, including peer reviews: At launch, the site includes profiles of more than 25 major programs, including those offered by Harvard, Princeton, Berkeley, Duke, Tsinghua University, and Peking University. Programs offered by CET Academic Programs, the Council on International Education Exchange (CIEE), the Taipei Language Institute (TLI) and the Alliance for Global Education are also included. More programs are listed every week. Each program has independent reviews from recent student alumni, who share their personal opinions about the program. This type of “people-to-people” exchange of information is especially valuable when trying to decide which program is the best fit. These alumni reviewers can also be contacted online with follow-up questions. The site also features expert advice about choosing the best Chinese language program. Initial contributors include Dr. Tom Gold of the University of California – Berkeley, Professor Lung-Hua Hu of Brown University, Dr. Charles Laughlin of the University of Virginia, Dr. Marvin Ho, Founder of the Taipei Language Institute, and Ms. Corinne Dillon, founder of Discover Mandarin. For more detailed information and application information, the site links directly to each program website, as well as to the program’s listing on IIEPassport.com, which is operated jointly by the Institute of International Education (IIE) and Education Dynamics. In addition, Zinch Study in China features comprehensive advice about preparing to go to China, and how to make the most of time spent studying there. At launch, the following organizations are providing expert commentary, and are available to answer follow-up questions online: Health care issues are addressed by United Family Hospitals, the leading health care provider for expats in China. Options to travel within China are addressed by WildChina and the China Culture Center. Internship & volunteer opportunities are described by NorCap China Internships, Red Collars and Teach for China. More organizations and expert commentators will be added continuously. There is no charge for participating. Interested programs and experts should contact Zinch directly. ———- Notes to the Editor: About the 100,000 Strong Initiative (from State department’s website): Citing the strategic importance of the U.S.-China relationship, in November 2009, President Barack Obama announced the 100,000 Strong Initiative, a national effort designed to increase dramatically the number and to diversify the composition of American students studying in China. More information about the initiative can be found at: www.state.gov/100000strong About Zinch: Founded in 2007 to put prospective college students in direct contact with college admissions officers, Zinch has more than 3,000,000 registered users in the United States alone. In 2010, the company entered the Chinese market in an effort to reduce the information gap between Chinese students and American universities. Several members of Zinch’s management team are fluent in Mandarin and have spent significant time in Greater China. For more information, please go to: www.zinch.com or contact Sid Krommenhoek, Zinch Co-Founder, at sid@zinch.com or 801-616-2715. The following is a press release from Zinch.com. WildChina supports this effort by offering travel advice and insights on educational travel in China. To view more articles on this topic, please visit our Zinch profile at http://www.zinch.com/wildchina.travel. Zinch.com officially launches “Zinch Study in China” in support of President Obama’s “100,000 Strong Initiative” SAN FRANCISCO, CA (May 10, 2011) – Zinch.com, the online social network that connects students with opportunities, today launched a web site for Americans interested in studying in China. Announced in conjunction with the China-US Strategic & Economic Dialogue this week in Washington, DC, the site (called “Zinch Study in China” and located athttp://www.zinch.com/studyinchina) is a free, interactive community that connects American students interested in learning Chinese with China-based language programs, recent alumni of these programs, and experts on studying Chinese and living in China. Built and operated without government funding, the site is an example of the public-private partnerships that support President Obama’s “100,000 Strong Initiative”, which aims to bring more American students to China. “When I first came to China in 1982, I had to figure out everything myself,” said Tom Melcher, VP of Global Development at Zinch. “Our goal for Zinch Study in China is to make it easier for American students to find the best-fit program, and to get reliable answers – from peers and experts — to their questions about studying in China. We’re honored by the opportunity to support President Obama’s 100,000 Strong Initiative, which is vital to the long-term health of the US-China strategic relationship.” Carola McGiffert, Director of the 100,000 Strong Initiative at the US Department of State, noted: “We are grateful to Zinch China for its generous support of the 100,000 Strong Initiative through the creation of an independent website for Americans looking to study in China. The ‘Zinch Study in China’ site will facilitate the 100,000 Strong Initiative’s goal of enhancing the people-to-people interactions necessary for increasing Americans’ understanding of China and building the next generation of American experts on China.” On many US college campuses, Chinese is now one of the most popular foreign languages to study. Many students would like to spend a summer or semester in China honing their language skills and gaining valuable cross-cultural experience. Unfortunately, it is hard to get reliable information about the many available China programs, which makes it challenging to decide where to study and how to get the most out of the experience. Information on studying in China that is currently offered at universities or online is diffuse and no website has yet offered independent reviews of China programs. Zinch Study in China solves this problem by providing a one-stop online destination of reliable, comprehensive information about studying in China, including peer reviews: • At launch, the site includes profiles of more than 25 major programs, including those offered by Harvard, Princeton, Berkeley, Duke, Tsinghua University, and Peking University. Programs offered by CET Academic Programs, the Council on International Education Exchange (CIEE), the Taipei Language Institute (TLI) and the Alliance for Global Education are also included. More programs are listed every week. • Each program has independent reviews from recent student alumni, who share their personal opinions about the program. This type of “people-to-people” exchange of information is especially valuable when trying to decide which program is the best fit. These alumni reviewers can also be contacted online with follow-up questions. • The site also features expert advice about choosing the best Chinese language program. Initial contributors include Dr. Tom Gold of the University of California – Berkeley, Professor Lung-Hua Hu of Brown University, Dr. Charles Laughlin of the University of Virginia, Dr. Marvin Ho, Founder of the Taipei Language Institute, and Ms. Corinne Dillon, founder of Discover Mandarin. • For more detailed information and application information, the site links directly to each program website, as well as to the program’s listing on IIEPassport.com, which is operated jointly by the Institute of International Education (IIE) and Education Dynamics. In addition, Zinch Study in China features comprehensive advice about preparing to go to China, and how to make the most of time spent studying there. At launch, the following organizations are providing expert commentary, and are available to answer follow-up questions online: • Health care issues are addressed by United Family Hospitals, the leading health care provider for expats in China. • Options to travel within China are addressed by WildChina and the China Culture Center. • Internship & volunteer opportunities are described by NorCap China Internships, Red Collars and Teach for China. More organizations and expert commentators will be added continuously. There is no charge for participating. Interested programs and experts should contact Zinch directly. About the 100,000 Strong Initiative (from State department’s website): Citing the strategic importance of the U.S.-China relationship, in November 2009, President Barack Obama announced the 100,000 Strong Initiative, a national effort designed to increase dramatically the number and to diversify the composition of American students studying in China. More information about the initiative can be found at: www.state.gov/100000strong Founded in 2007 to put prospective college students in direct contact with college admissions officers, Zinch has more than 3,000,000 registered users in the United States alone. In 2010, the company entered the Chinese market in an effort to reduce the information gap between Chinese students and American universities. Several members of Zinch’s management team are fluent in Mandarin and have spent significant time in Greater China. For more information, please go to: www.zinch.com or contact Sid Krommenhoek, Zinch Co-Founder, at sid@zinch.com or 801-616-2715.