ID: 16a8ade1fbf483ee
Title: The taste of Chinese Tea - A comparative list of various Chinese Teas
URL: https://wildchina.com/2009/03/chinese-tea/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2009-03-23T10:47:37+08:00
Tags: WildChina Travel, Cultural Immersion, green tea, white tea, tea, wild China, WildChina
================================================================================

Relax. Detox. Heal. Awaken. The variety of Chinese teas are in the dozens and their uses are many. Green Tea Details: Most popular in China Has the most medical value and is low in caffeine Dried with heat and undergoes no fermentation process Promotes fat oxidation in humans at rest and to prevent obesity and improve insulin sensitivity in mice Green tea has been used as traditional medicine in areas such as China, Japan, India and Thailand to help everything from controlling bleeding and helping heal wounds to regulating body temperature, blood sugar and promoting digestion. Oolong Tea Details: Half fermented and relatively thick in flavor Popular in South East China and Taiwan, also popular for Kung Fu Cha Acts as an emulsifier for fat and cholesterol (great for today’s junk food lovers!) Black Tea Details: Fermented before baking Generally stronger in flavor and contains more caffeine than the less oxidized teas While green tea usually loses its flavor within a year, black tea retains its flavour for several years Association between black tea intake and decreased cardiovascular disease events Red Tea Details: Not the most popular in China White Tea Details: Similar to green tea, but roasted Has lowest caffeine content Very light in color and aroma Yellow Tea Details: Processed similarly to green tea, but with a slower drying phase Damp tea leaves are allowed to sit and yellow Similarities in taste can still be drawn between yellow, green and white teas. Flower/Scented Tea Details: Usually contains flower petals and the base can be green, red, etc… Popular in Northern China Compressed Tea Details: Compressed and hardened into a certain shape Good for transport and and storage Mainly supplied to ethnic minorities Mainly produced in Hunan, Hebei, Sichuan, and Yunnan provinces Tea’s Tidbits 1. Why is it prepared? – For a family gathering – As a sign of respect (in China, a younger generation always offers a cup of tea to an older generation) – To apologize – To express thanks – To connect large families on wedding days – To pass on a tradition 2. Drink Green Tea, Prevent Skin Cancer: Green tea just keeps getting better. To add to the abundance of health-improving qualities of the beverage, UAB Researcher Santosh Katiyar, Ph.D., associate professor of dermatology, claims that it can reduce the risk of skin cancer. 3. Gongfu Cha: In China, people serve tea methodically according to tradition. Gongfu cha is the skill of serving tea (gongfu or “kung fu” means “skill”). 4. Do you know how China grades their teas? The highest grade white, yellow, and green tea are made from tender tea shoots picked early Spring. These young tea shoots may consist of a single terminal bud, a bud with an adjacent leaf or a bud with two adjacent slightly unfurled leaves. It is generally required that the leaves are equal in length or shorter than the buds. More oxidised tea such as red or oolong tea are made from more matured leaves. The Anxi Tieguanyin tea, for example, is made from one bud with two to four leaves. Not all high grade green tea is made from tender tea shoots. The highly regarded green tea Liu An Gua Pian is made from more matured leaves. Traditionally these tender tea shoots are picked before 5 April, or Qing Ming Jie. The standard practice is to start picking when 5% of the garden is ready, or when the tea buds reach certain size. In some tea gardens, tea shoots are picked daily, or every 2 days. 5. What if I want to buy tea in Beijing? Maliandao Tea City – Southwestern Xuanwu District/Maliandao Tea Street is conveniently located near the Beijing West Railway Station. Cha Jia Fu Teahouse – Inside Houhai Park, Deshengmen Neidajie (Tel: +86 10 6616 0725) Ming Hui Cha Yuan – Inside Dajue Temple, Bei’an He, Wenquan Zhen, Haidian District (Tel: +86 10 6246 1567) Confucian Teahouse – 28 Guozijian Jie, Andingmenwai, Dongcheng District (Tel: +86 10 8404 8539) Tianqiao Happy Teahouse – A1 Beiwei Lu, Xuanwu District (Tel: +86 10 6304 0617) ———- Photo credits to: Wikipedia and Listening to Leaves Relax. Detox. Heal. Awaken. The variety of Chinese teas are in the dozens and their uses are many. Green Tea Details: Most popular in China Has the most medical value and is low in caffeine Dried with heat and undergoes no fermentation process Promotes fat oxidation in humans at rest and to prevent obesity and improve insulin sensitivity in mice Green tea has been used as traditional medicine in areas such as China, Japan, India and Thailand to help everything from controlling bleeding and helping heal wounds to regulating body temperature, blood sugar and promoting digestion. Oolong Tea Details: Half fermented and relatively thick in flavor Popular in South East China and Taiwan, also popular for Kung Fu Cha Acts as an emulsifier for fat and cholesterol (great for today’s junk food lovers!) Black Tea Details: Fermented before baking Generally stronger in flavor and contains more caffeine than the less oxidized teas While green tea usually loses its flavor within a year, black tea retains its flavour for several years Association between black tea intake and decreased cardiovascular disease events Red Tea Details: Not the most popular in China White Tea Details: Similar to green tea, but roasted Has lowest caffeine content Very light in color and aroma Yellow Tea Details: Processed similarly to green tea, but with a slower drying phase Damp tea leaves are allowed to sit and yellow Similarities in taste can still be drawn between yellow, green and white teas. Flower/Scented Tea Details: Usually contains flower petals and the base can be green, red, etc… Popular in Northern China Compressed Tea Details: Compressed and hardened into a certain shape Good for transport and and storage Mainly supplied to ethnic minorities Mainly produced in Hunan, Hebei, Sichuan, and Yunnan provinces Tea’s Tidbits 1. Why is it prepared? – For a family gathering – As a sign of respect (in China, a younger generation always offers a cup of tea to an older generation) – To apologize – To express thanks – To connect large families on wedding days – To pass on a tradition 2. Drink Green Tea, Prevent Skin Cancer: Green tea just keeps getting better. To add to the abundance of health-improving qualities of the beverage, UAB Researcher Santosh Katiyar, Ph.D., associate professor of dermatology, claims that it can reduce the risk of skin cancer. 3. Gongfu Cha: In China, people serve tea methodically according to tradition. Gongfu cha is the skill of serving tea (gongfu or “kung fu” means “skill”). 4. Do you know how China grades their teas? The highest grade white, yellow, and green tea are made from tender tea shoots picked early Spring. These young tea shoots may consist of a single terminal bud, a bud with an adjacent leaf or a bud with two adjacent slightly unfurled leaves. It is generally required that the leaves are equal in length or shorter than the buds. More oxidised tea such as red or oolong tea are made from more matured leaves. The Anxi Tieguanyin tea, for example, is made from one bud with two to four leaves. Not all high grade green tea is made from tender tea shoots. The highly regarded green tea Liu An Gua Pian is made from more matured leaves. Traditionally these tender tea shoots are picked before 5 April, or Qing Ming Jie. The standard practice is to start picking when 5% of the garden is ready, or when the tea buds reach certain size. In some tea gardens, tea shoots are picked daily, or every 2 days. 5. What if I want to buy tea in Beijing? Maliandao Tea City – Southwestern Xuanwu District/Maliandao Tea Street is conveniently located near the Beijing West Railway Station. Cha Jia Fu Teahouse – Inside Houhai Park, Deshengmen Neidajie (Tel: +86 10 6616 0725) Ming Hui Cha Yuan – Inside Dajue Temple, Bei’an He, Wenquan Zhen, Haidian District (Tel: +86 10 6246 1567) Confucian Teahouse – 28 Guozijian Jie, Andingmenwai, Dongcheng District (Tel: +86 10 8404 8539) Tianqiao Happy Teahouse – A1 Beiwei Lu, Xuanwu District (Tel: +86 10 6304 0617) ———- Photo credits to: Wikipedia and Listening to Leaves Relax. Detox. Heal. Awaken. The variety of Chinese teas are in the dozens and their uses are many. Most popular in China Has the most medical value and is low in caffeine Dried with heat and undergoes no fermentation process Promotes fat oxidation in humans at rest and to prevent obesity and improve insulin sensitivity in mice Green tea has been used as traditional medicine in areas such as China, Japan, India and Thailand to help everything from controlling bleeding and helping heal wounds to regulating body temperature, blood sugar and promoting digestion. Half fermented and relatively thick in flavor Popular in South East China and Taiwan, also popular for Kung Fu Cha Acts as an emulsifier for fat and cholesterol (great for today’s junk food lovers!) Fermented before baking Generally stronger in flavor and contains more caffeine than the less oxidized teas While green tea usually loses its flavor within a year, black tea retains its flavour for several years Association between black tea intake and decreased cardiovascular disease events Not the most popular in China Similar to green tea, but roasted Has lowest caffeine content Very light in color and aroma Processed similarly to green tea, but with a slower drying phase Damp tea leaves are allowed to sit and yellow Similarities in taste can still be drawn between yellow, green and white teas. Usually contains flower petals and the base can be green, red, etc… Popular in Northern China Compressed and hardened into a certain shape Good for transport and and storage Mainly supplied to ethnic minorities Mainly produced in Hunan, Hebei, Sichuan, and Yunnan provinces 1. Why is it prepared? – For a family gathering – As a sign of respect (in China, a younger generation always offers a cup of tea to an older generation) – To connect large families on wedding days – To pass on a tradition 2. Drink Green Tea, Prevent Skin Cancer: Green tea just keeps getting better. To add to the abundance of health-improving qualities of the beverage, UAB Researcher Santosh Katiyar, Ph.D., associate professor of dermatology, claims that it can reduce the risk of skin cancer. 3. Gongfu Cha: In China, people serve tea methodically according to tradition. Gongfu cha is the skill of serving tea (gongfu or “kung fu” means “skill”). 4. Do you know how China grades their teas? The highest grade white, yellow, and green tea are made from tender tea shoots picked early Spring. These young tea shoots may consist of a single terminal bud, a bud with an adjacent leaf or a bud with two adjacent slightly unfurled leaves. It is generally required that the leaves are equal in length or shorter than the buds. More oxidised tea such as red or oolong tea are made from more matured leaves. The Anxi Tieguanyin tea, for example, is made from one bud with two to four leaves. Not all high grade green tea is made from tender tea shoots. The highly regarded green tea Liu An Gua Pian is made from more matured leaves. Traditionally these tender tea shoots are picked before 5 April, or Qing Ming Jie. The standard practice is to start picking when 5% of the garden is ready, or when the tea buds reach certain size. In some tea gardens, tea shoots are picked daily, or every 2 days. 5. What if I want to buy tea in Beijing? Maliandao Tea City – Southwestern Xuanwu District/Maliandao Tea Street is conveniently located near the Beijing West Railway Station. Cha Jia Fu Teahouse – Inside Houhai Park, Deshengmen Neidajie (Tel: +86 10 6616 0725) Ming Hui Cha Yuan – Inside Dajue Temple, Bei’an He, Wenquan Zhen, Haidian District (Tel: +86 10 6246 1567) Confucian Teahouse – 28 Guozijian Jie, Andingmenwai, Dongcheng District (Tel: +86 10 8404 8539) Tianqiao Happy Teahouse – A1 Beiwei Lu, Xuanwu District (Tel: +86 10 6304 0617) Photo credits to: Wikipedia and Listening to Leaves