ID: 719ab1495f6013c9
Title: Chinese New Year 2016 - Release Your Inner Monkey | WildChina
URL: https://wildchina.com/2016/02/release-your-inner-monkey-in-2016/
Source: Wild China
Date: 2016-02-04T15:06:01+08:00
Tags: Chinese New Year, North Korea, Editor's Pick
================================================================================

Happy Chinese New Year, year of the Monkey! For our monkey friends, or for all those with a bit of an inner monkey in them – here’s your personality portrait and some tips for how to tap into your inner monkey as you take on the new year! (Wondering if you’re a Monkey? If you were born in one of these years: 2016, 2004, 1992, 1980, 1968, 1956, 1944, 1932, 1920, you are! But we’ve all got a bit of monkey in us, so read on!) There’s an old Chinese story that goes like this: To name the 12 years in the lunar calendar cycle, the wise Jade Emperor selected 13 animals to compete in a race across the local river. The order of their arrival would determine their position in the calendar (with one animal missing out on a spot). Each animal used its particular skill set to successfully cross the river. The clever but sneaky rat tricked the tiger into carrying him across. The brave and loyal dragon came in 5th, missing out on an easy win when he took a detour to help a village that was engulfed in the flames. (Wondering who missed out? The rat pushed the cat off the tiger’s back and into the river – according to the story, it is the reason why cats and rats hate each other today!) The Monkey, a sociable and intelligent creature, worked together with the ram and the rooster. The three shared a raft that the rooster had found. The ram and monkey cleared the weeds and helped push the raft to the shore. They were named the 8th, 9th and 10th animals in the Chinese zodiac. This is the year to embrace your inner monkey and here is how to do it: People born in the year of the monkey are BIG foodies! They particularly love snacks and exploring different cuisines. Take your love for food to the next level this year. Go find a new cuisine you’ve never tried before or learn to make a new dish and share it with all your friends. Your perfect foodie trip: Our Gastronomic tour with expert Fuchsia Dunlop Adventurous and innovative, monkeys love to try new things and take on challenges. This year why not take a leap of faith and accept a new and exciting challenge. Step out of your comfort zone and accept that new job offer or take a trip to a destination that is completely out of the ordinary. Your perfect adventurous trip: Our Silk Road adventure will take you on one of the world’s most legendary journeys Enthusiasm and curiosity are monkey traits that no one could deny. They are also one animal that is always on-the-go. Curious about what it would feel like to run a marathon or wondering how easy it would be to climb a mountain? Make this the year you try it! The perfect trip for curious Monkeys: Our North Korea Marathon Tour will give you unique access to the world’s most isolated country Monkeys are sociable and fun! They love to be around others and always liven up a party with their light-hearted ways. Any one of our 16 small group tours would suit a sociable Monkey in 2016. Whether you’re a huge foodie, curious to run a marathon or want to experience something totally new, download our full Small Group Tour brochure and choose the perfect trip for you: May the year of the monkey bring you luck, fortune and happiness (and a nice juicy peach). Happy Chinese New Year, year of the Monkey! For our monkey friends, or for all those with a bit of an inner monkey in them – here’s your personality portrait and some tips for how to tap into your inner monkey as you take on the new year! (Wondering if you’re a Monkey? If you were born in one of these years: 2016, 2004, 1992, 1980, 1968, 1956, 1944, 1932, 1920, you are! But we’ve all got a bit of monkey in us, so read on!) There’s an old Chinese story that goes like this: To name the 12 years in the lunar calendar cycle, the wise Jade Emperor selected 13 animals to compete in a race across the local river. The order of their arrival would determine their position in the calendar (with one animal missing out on a spot). Each animal used its particular skill set to successfully cross the river. The clever but sneaky rat tricked the tiger into carrying him across. The brave and loyal dragon came in 5th, missing out on an easy win when he took a detour to help a village that was engulfed in the flames. (Wondering who missed out? The rat pushed the cat off the tiger’s back and into the river – according to the story, it is the reason why cats and rats hate each other today!) The Monkey, a sociable and intelligent creature, worked together with the ram and the rooster. The three shared a raft that the rooster had found. The ram and monkey cleared the weeds and helped push the raft to the shore. They were named the 8th, 9th and 10th animals in the Chinese zodiac. This is the year to embrace your inner monkey and here is how to do it: People born in the year of the monkey are BIG foodies! They particularly love snacks and exploring different cuisines. Take your love for food to the next level this year. Go find a new cuisine you’ve never tried before or learn to make a new dish and share it with all your friends. Your perfect foodie trip: Our Gastronomic tour with expert Fuchsia Dunlop Adventurous and innovative, monkeys love to try new things and take on challenges. This year why not take a leap of faith and accept a new and exciting challenge. Step out of your comfort zone and accept that new job offer or take a trip to a destination that is completely out of the ordinary. Your perfect adventurous trip: Our Silk Road adventure will take you on one of the world’s most legendary journeys Enthusiasm and curiosity are monkey traits that no one could deny. They are also one animal that is always on-the-go. Curious about what it would feel like to run a marathon or wondering how easy it would be to climb a mountain? Make this the year you try it! The perfect trip for curious Monkeys: Our North Korea Marathon Tour will give you unique access to the world’s most isolated country Monkeys are sociable and fun! They love to be around others and always liven up a party with their light-hearted ways. Any one of our 16 small group tours would suit a sociable Monkey in 2016. Whether you’re a huge foodie, curious to run a marathon or want to experience something totally new, download our full Small Group Tour brochure and choose the perfect trip for you: May the year of the monkey bring you luck, fortune and happiness (and a nice juicy peach). Happy Chinese New Year, year of the Monkey! For our monkey friends, or for all those with a bit of an inner monkey in them – here’s your personality portrait and some tips for how to tap into your inner monkey as you take on the new year! (Wondering if you’re a Monkey? If you were born in one of these years: 2016, 2004, 1992, 1980, 1968, 1956, 1944, 1932, 1920, you are! But we’ve all got a bit of monkey in us, so read on!) There’s an old Chinese story that goes like this: To name the 12 years in the lunar calendar cycle, the wise Jade Emperor selected 13 animals to compete in a race across the local river. The order of their arrival would determine their position in the calendar (with one animal missing out on a spot). Each animal used its particular skill set to successfully cross the river. The clever but sneaky rat tricked the tiger into carrying him across. The brave and loyal dragon came in 5th, missing out on an easy win when he took a detour to help a village that was engulfed in the flames. (Wondering who missed out? The rat pushed the cat off the tiger’s back and into the river – according to the story, it is the reason why cats and rats hate each other today!) The Monkey, a sociable and intelligent creature, worked together with the ram and the rooster. The three shared a raft that the rooster had found. The ram and monkey cleared the weeds and helped push the raft to the shore. They were named the 8th, 9th and 10th animals in the Chinese zodiac. This is the year to embrace your inner monkey and here is how to do it: People born in the year of the monkey are BIG foodies! They particularly love snacks and exploring different cuisines. Take your love for food to the next level this year. Go find a new cuisine you’ve never tried before or learn to make a new dish and share it with all your friends. Your perfect foodie trip: Our Gastronomic tour with expert Fuchsia Dunlop Adventurous and innovative, monkeys love to try new things and take on challenges. This year why not take a leap of faith and accept a new and exciting challenge. Step out of your comfort zone and accept that new job offer or take a trip to a destination that is completely out of the ordinary. Your perfect adventurous trip: Our Silk Road adventure will take you on one of the world’s most legendary journeys Enthusiasm and curiosity are monkey traits that no one could deny. They are also one animal that is always on-the-go. Curious about what it would feel like to run a marathon or wondering how easy it would be to climb a mountain? Make this the year you try it! The perfect trip for curious Monkeys: Our North Korea Marathon Tour will give you unique access to the world’s most isolated country Monkeys are sociable and fun! They love to be around others and always liven up a party with their light-hearted ways. Any one of our 16 small group tours would suit a sociable Monkey in 2016. Whether you’re a huge foodie, curious to run a marathon or want to experience something totally new, download our full Small Group Tour brochure and choose the perfect trip for you: May the year of the monkey bring you luck, fortune and happiness (and a nice juicy peach).